Mr. President,
The year 2021 is a truly remarkable one for the Chinese people. This year marks the centenary of the Communist Party of China. It is also the 50th anniversary of the restoration of the lawful seat of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations, a historic event which will be solemnly commemorated by China. We will continue our active efforts to take China's cooperation with the United Nations to a new level and make new and greater contributions to advancing the noble cause of the UN.
Mr. President,
A year ago, global leaders attended the high-level meetings marking the 75th anniversary of the UN and issued a declaration pledging to fight COVID-19 in solidarity, tackle challenges together, uphold multilateralism, strengthen the role of the UN, and work for the common future of present and coming generations.
One year on, our world is facing the combined impacts of changes unseen in a century and the COVID-19 pandemic. In all countries, people long for peace and development more than ever before, their call for equity and justice is growing stronger, and they are more determined in pursuing win-win cooperation.
Right now, COVID-19 is still raging in the world, and profound changes are taking place in human society. The world has entered a period of new turbulence and transformation. It falls on each and every responsible statesman to answer the questions of our times and make a historical choice with confidence, courage and a sense of mission.
First, we must beat COVID-19 and win this decisive fight crucial to the future of humanity. The history of world civilization is also one of fighting pandemics. Rising to challenges, humanity has always emerged in triumph and achieved greater development and advancement. The current pandemic may appear overwhelming, but we humanity will surely overcome it and prevail.
We should always put people and their lives first, and care about the life, value and dignity of every individual. We need to respect science, take a science-based approach, and follow the laws of science. We need to both follow routine, targeted COVID-19 protocols and take emergency response measures, and both carry out epidemic control and promote economic and social development. We need to enhance coordinated global COVID-19 response and minimize the risk of cross-border virus transmission.
Vaccination is our powerful weapon against COVID-19. I have stressed on many occasions the need to make vaccines a global public good and ensure vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. Of pressing priority is to ensure the fair and equitable distribution of vaccines globally. China will strive to provide a total of two billion doses of vaccines to the world by the end of this year. In addition to donating 100 million US dollars to COVAX, China will donate 100 million doses of vaccines to other developing countries in the course of this year. China will continue to support and engage in global science-based origins tracing, and stands firmly opposed to political maneuvering in whatever form.
Second, we must revitalize the economy and pursue more robust, greener and more balanced global development. Development holds the key to people's well-being. Facing the severe shocks of COVID-19, we need to work together to steer global development toward a new stage of balanced, coordinated and inclusive growth. To this end, I would like to propose a Global Development Initiative.
- Staying committed to development as a priority. We need to put development high on the global macro policy agenda, strengthen policy coordination among major economies, and ensure policy continuity, consistency and sustainability. We need to foster global development partnerships that are more equal and balanced, forge greater synergy among multilateral development cooperation processes, and speed up the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
- Staying committed to a people-centered approach. We should safeguard and improve people's livelihoods and protect and promote human rights through development, and make sure that development is for the people and by the people, and that its fruits are shared among the people. We should continue our work so that the people will have a greater sense of happiness, benefit and security, and achieve well-rounded development.
- Staying committed to benefits for all. We should care about the special needs of developing countries. We may employ such means as debt suspension and development aid to help developing countries, particularly vulnerable ones facing exceptional difficulties, with emphasis on addressing unbalanced and inadequate development among and within countries.
- Staying committed to innovation-driven development. We need to seize the historic opportunities created by the latest round of technological revolution and industrial transformation, redouble efforts to harness technological achievements to boost productivity, and foster an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for the development of science and technology. We should foster new growth drivers in the post-COVID era and jointly achieve leapfrog development.
- Staying committed to harmony between man and nature. We need to improve global environmental governance, actively respond to climate change and create a community of life for man and nature. We need to accelerate transition to a green and low-carbon economy and achieve green recovery and development. China will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. This requires tremendous hard work, and we will make every effort to meet these goals. China will step up support for other developing countries in developing green and low-carbon energy, and will not build new coal-fired power projects abroad.
-Staying committed to results-oriented actions. We need to increase input in development, advance on a priority basis cooperation on poverty alleviation, food security, COVID-19 response and vaccines, development financing, climate change and green development, industrialization, digital economy and connectivity, among other areas, and accelerate implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, so as to build a global community of development with a shared future. China has pledged an additional three billion US dollars of international assistance in the next three years to support developing countries in responding to COVID-19 and promoting economic and social recovery.
Third, we must strengthen solidarity and promote mutual respect and win-win cooperation in conducting international relations. A world of peace and development should embrace civilizations of various forms, and must accommodate diverse paths to modernization. Democracy is not a special right reserved to an individual country, but a right for the people of all countries to enjoy. Recent developments in the global situation show once again that military intervention from the outside and so-called democratic transformation entail nothing but harm. We need to advocate peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, which are the common values of humanity, and reject the practice of forming small circles or zero-sum games.
Differences and problems among countries, hardly avoidable, need to be handled through dialogue and cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual respect. One country's success does not have to mean another country's failure, and the world is big enough to accommodate common development and progress of all countries. We need to pursue dialogue and inclusiveness over confrontation and exclusion. We need to build a new type of international relations based on mutual respect, equity, justice and win-win cooperation, and do the best we can to expand the convergence of our interests and achieve the biggest synergy possible.
The Chinese people have always celebrated and striven to pursue the vision of peace, amity and harmony. China has never and will never invade or bully others, or seek hegemony. China is always a builder of world peace, contributor to global development, defender of the international order and provider of public goods. China will continue to bring the world new opportunities through its new development.
Fourth, we must improve global governance and practice true multilateralism. In the world, there is only one international system, i.e. the international system with the United Nations at its core. There is only one international order, i.e. the international order underpinned by international law. And there is only one set of rules, i.e. the basic norms governing international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.
The UN should hold high the banner of true multilateralism and serve as the central platform for countries to jointly safeguard universal security, share development achievements and chart the course for the future of the world. The UN should stay committed to ensuring a stable international order, increasing the representation and say of developing countries in international affairs, and taking the lead in advancing democracy and rule of law in international relations. The UN should advance, in a balanced manner, work in all the three areas of security, development and human rights. It should set common agenda, highlight pressing issues and focus on real actions, and see to it that commitments made by all parties to multilateralism are truly delivered.
Mr. President,
The world is once again at a historical crossroads. I am convinced that the trend of peace, development and advancement for humanity is irresistible. Let us bolster confidence and jointly address global threats and challenges, and work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind and a better world for all.
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am very glad to attend the Sustainable Development Forum 2021 and to discuss with you grand plans for international development cooperation and to explore together ways toward sustainable development. With "people-centered sustainable development" being the theme of the Forum, our in-depth discussions will offer insights and visions for the world to achieve post-COVID recovery and advance international development cooperation.
Development is the eternal pursuit of human society. The world today is under the combined impacts of the pandemic and world-wide changes, both unseen in a century. Global economic recovery has been uneven. The pandemic has wiped off the achievements in global poverty reduction of the past ten years. And the population suffering from hunger has amounted to around 800 million. The implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is confronted with new challenges. As the international development cause stands at a crossroads, President Xi Jinping solemnly proposed the Global Development Initiative at the General Debate of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. He called on the international community to accelerate implementation of the 2030 SDGs for more robust, greener and more balanced global development, and foster a global community of development with a shared future. This major Initiative has set out a blueprint for the development of countries and international development cooperation, and pointed the way forward for global development and international development cooperation.
The Global Development Initiative embraces the people-centered core concept. It takes the betterment of people's well-being and realization of their well-rounded development as the starting point and ultimate goal, and endeavors to meet the aspirations of all nations for a better life. It focuses on development as the master key to addressing all problems, and strives to solve difficult issues of development and create more opportunities for development, leaving no countries and no individuals behind.
The Global Development Initiative follows the guidelines of practical cooperation. International development cannot be advanced with rhetoric. It needs real actions. The Initiative responds to the dynamics and urgent needs of global development, and has identified priority areas including poverty alleviation, food security, COVID-19 and vaccines, financing for development, climate change and green development, industrialization, digital economy, and connectivity. To this end, it has also put forward cooperation proposals and plans to translate development consensus into pragmatic actions so as to inject new impetus to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
The Global Development Initiative advocates the spirit of open and inclusive partnership. To achieve sustainable development, we need the wisdom and strength of everyone. The Initiative is an important public good and cooperation platform that China provides to the international community. It is open to the whole world and welcomes the participation of all countries. It will form synergy with other initiatives including the Belt and Road Initiative, Agenda 2063 of the African Union, and the New Partnership for Africa's Development. It will build consensus and pool together the strengths of multilateral cooperation mechanisms such as the UN, the G20 and BRICS as well as various sub-regional and regional platforms.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The pandemic has brought about multiple crises and challenges in the economic, public health, food and social sectors to the international community, particularly the developing countries. Implementing the 2030 Agenda has become more important, not less. Deepening international development cooperation has become more urgent, not less. We call on all to use the implementation of the Global Development Initiative as an opportunity, make firm political commitment, and take practical actions so as to move forward the cause of international development.
We need to deepen cooperation in fighting COVID-19 to prevail together over the challenge. As the virus keeps mutating and the pandemic remains rampant, we must put in place multiple lines of defense, and do our best to stem the cross-border spread of the virus. Origins-tracing should be based on science, and we must oppose politicization and stigmatization. We need to guarantee the R&D and production of vaccines, and ensure their fair distribution. We need to ensure vaccine accessibility and affordability so as to close the "immunization gap".
We need to strengthen macro-policy coordination to promote economic recovery. Economic growth is the important basis for promoting development. Facing the grave situation of fragile global economic recovery, all countries, major economies in particular, need to adopt responsible macro-economic policies and enhance policy communication and coordination so as to help achieve stability and growth. We need to seize the historic opportunities in the new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation, stay innovation-driven, and deepen cooperation on digital technologies to help developing countries realize industrialization and modernization in a better, faster way. We need to join hands to build an open world economy, and make globalization more open, more inclusive, and more balanced for the benefits of all. Any attempt to use the pandemic for the purpose of de-globalization, seclusion, de-coupling or protectionism will undermine the interests of others as well as one's own. It will lead to a dead end, and create new obstacles to the realization of the SDGs globally.
We need to pursue green and low-carbon development to proactively tackle climate change. Green and low-carbon development is the most sustainable growth driver, and a sound eco-environment benefits everyone. We need to seize the opportunities arising from technological progress and economic transition, take the path of green development, and upgrade our economic and industrial structures as well as the energy mix at a faster pace. We need to step up systematic protection of nature, and advance global environmental governance, so as to realize harmony between man and nature and build a clean and beautiful world. We also need to uphold the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, fully implement the Paris Agreement and strengthen global climate governance, with a view to promoting global ecological civilization.
We need to uphold fairness and justice and create an enabling environment for development. There is no golden rule or one-size-fits-all model for development paths of various countries. Every country should choose its own path tailored to its own realities. We should abide by international law and the basic norms governing international relations, enhance actions to silence the guns, safeguard world peace and security, and promote human rights, especially people's right to development, so as to create an enabling environment for the development of all countries. The world needs justice, not high-handedness. We should respect every country's independent choice of its path and system, treat each other as equals, readily learn from each other, and oppose bullying practices such as imposing one's will on others and interfering in others' internal affairs.
We need to safeguard true multilateralism and deepen the global development partnership. True development is sustainable, and good development is development for all. We should practice global governance guided by the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, safeguard the UN-centered international system, give full play to UN's coordinating role in promoting sustainable development, prioritize development in global macro-policy coordination, step up North-South cooperation and deepen South-South cooperation. We should provide more resources to developing countries to shore up their capacity for self-generated development, eliminate the development divide, and jointly foster a global community of development with a shared future.
Colleagues,
China always takes development as the top governance agenda, and attaches great importance to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. We have achieved the historic success of eliminating absolute poverty, completed the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and are marching toward the second centenary goal of fully building a great modern socialist country. We have put in place the world's largest social security network and compulsory education system, and expanded China's middle-income population by hundreds of millions, resulting in a notably greater sense of happiness, satisfaction and fulfillment among the Chinese people. Firmly committed to the vision of a community of life for man and nature, China has been coordinating its management of mountains, rivers, forests, farmlands, lakes, grasslands, deserts and glaciers, robustly implementing the Paris Agreement on climate change, and adhering to the path of green, low-carbon and circular development by constantly upgrading its industrial structure and energy mix. We have partnered with 141 countries in Belt and Road cooperation to promote common development through greater connectivity. Despite COVID-19, the China-Europe Railway Express remains in active service, and the development of the green Silk Road, the digital Silk Road and the health Silk Road is gaining momentum, delivering solid progress according to the vision of open, green and clean cooperation for high-standard, people-centered and sustainable development based on extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. In his statement a few days ago at the General Debate of the UN General Assembly, President Xi Jinping announced that China will step up support for other developing countries in developing green and low-carbon energy, and will not build new coal-fired power projects abroad. This is one of the many important decisions China voluntarily made to help tackle global climate change. We will strive to make new contributions to green development of the world through our actions.
As the largest developing country, China always stands in solidarity with other developing countries. We have been actively promoting South-South cooperation, and have provided development aid to more than 160 developing countries. In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have carried out the largest global humanitarian operation since the founding of the People's Republic. We are honoring our solemn pledge to make Chinese vaccines a global public good, and have provided more than 1.25 billion doses of vaccines for the world. President Xi Jinping announced recently that China will provide a total of two billion doses of vaccines for the rest of the world by the end of this year, and that on top of the US$100 million donation to COVAX, China will donate an additional 100 million doses to fellow developing countries within this year. This is China's important contribution to global vaccination. China will release its Progress Report on Implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (2021) and Big Earth Data in Support of the Sustainable Development Goals (2021), which we believe will provide useful experience for the international implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
An ancient Chinese philosopher once observed, "Devote your attention to the basics, and when you master them, you will find the way." China stands ready to work with all parties to advance the Global Development Initiative, and contribute our strength to quickening the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to delivering more benefits to the people of all countries. Let us work together to open a bright future for international development cooperation and build a community with a shared future for mankind.

Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
"True friendship brings people close however far apart they may be." It gives me great pleasure to attend the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2021 and meet you all in this cloud meeting. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government and people and also in my own name, a warm welcome to all the guests participating both in person and online, and cordial greetings and best wishes to all friends old and new.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Boao Forum. Over these two decades, Asian countries have advanced regional economic integration and worked in unison to pursue both economic and social development, which has turned Asia into the most vibrant and promising region in the global economy. Asia has also stood with the rest of the world in the face of terrorism, the Indian Ocean tsunami, the international financial crisis, COVID-19 and other traditional and non-traditional security threats, which has helped maintain stability and security in the region. As an important member of the Asian family, China has kept deepening reform and opening-up while promoting regional cooperation, thus achieving progress and development in tandem with the rest of Asia and the world. It is fair to say that this Forum has borne witness to the extraordinary journey of China, of Asia and of the world, and has exerted a significant influence in boosting development in Asia and beyond.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
This year's annual conference is convened against a very special background. The theme of the conference-"A World in Change: Join Hands to Strengthen Global Governance and Advance Belt and Road Cooperation"-is most opportune and relevant under the current circumstances.
Now, the combined forces of changes and a pandemic both unseen in a century have brought the world into a phase of fluidity and transformation. Instability and uncertainty are clearly on the rise. Humanity is facing growing governance deficit, trust deficit, development deficit, and peace deficit. Much remains to be done to achieve universal security and common development. That said, there is no fundamental change in the trend toward a multi-polar world; economic globalization is showing renewed resilience; and the call for upholding multilateralism and enhancing communication and coordination has grown stronger. While we live in an age rife with challenges, it is also an age full of hope.
Where should humanity go from here? What kind of future should we create for future generations? As we try to answer these important questions, it is crucial that we bear in mind the shared interests of mankind and make responsible and wise choices.
China calls on all countries in Asia and beyond to answer the call of our times, defeat the pandemic through solidarity, strengthen global governance, and keep pursuing a community with a shared future for mankind.
- We need consultation on an equal footing to create a future of shared benefits. Global governance should reflect the evolving political and economic landscape in the world, conform to the historical trend of peace, development and win-win cooperation, and meet the practical needs in addressing global challenges. We need to follow the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, uphold true multilateralism, and make the global governance system more fair and equitable. We need to safeguard the UN-centered international system, preserve the international order underpinned by international law, and uphold the multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization at its core. World affairs should be handled through extensive consultation, and the future of the world should be decided by all countries working together. We must not let the rules set by one or a few countries be imposed on others, or allow unilateralism pursued by certain countries to set the pace for the whole world. What we need in today's world is justice, not hegemony. Big countries should behave in a manner befitting their status and with a greater sense of responsibility.
- We need openness and innovation to create a future of development and prosperity. Openness is essential for development and progress. It also holds the key to post-COVID economic recovery. We need to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, deepen regional economic integration, and enhance supply, industrial, data and human resources chains, with a view to building an open world economy. We need to deepen partnerships for connectivity and strengthen infrastructural links to keep the arteries of economic activities unclogged. We must seize the historical opportunities in a new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, boost the digital economy, and step up exchanges and cooperation in such areas as artificial intelligence, biomedicine and modern energy, so that the fruits of scientific and technological innovation can be turned into greater benefits for people in all countries. In this age of economic globalization, openness and integration is an unstoppable historical trend. Attempts to "erect walls" or "decouple" run counter to the law of economics and market principles. They would hurt others' interests without benefiting oneself.
- We need solidarity and cooperation to create a future of health and security. In the ongoing fight against COVID-19, victory will be ours at the end of the day. We must put people and their lives above anything else, scale up information sharing and collective efforts, enhance public health and medical cooperation, and give full play to the key role of the World Health Organization (WHO). It is important that we bolster international cooperation on the R&D, production and distribution of vaccines and increase their accessibility and affordability in developing countries so that everyone in the world can access and afford the vaccines they need. It is also important that we take comprehensive measures to improve global governance on public health security and work together for a global community of health for all. We need to follow the philosophy of green development, advance international cooperation on climate change, and do more to implement the Paris Agreement on climate change. The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities must be upheld, and concerns of developing countries on capital, technology and capacity building must be addressed.
- We need commitment to justice to create a future of mutual respect and mutual learning. Diversity is what defines our world and makes human civilization fascinating. The COVID-19 pandemic has made it all the more clear to people around the world that we must reject the cold-war and zero-sum mentality and oppose a new "Cold War" and ideological confrontation in whatever forms. In state-to-state relations, the principles of equality, mutual respect and mutual trust must be put front and center. Bossing others around or meddling in others' internal affairs would not get one any support. We must advocate peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, which are common values of humanity, and encourage exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations to promote the progress of human civilization.
In this context, I would like to announce that once the pandemic gets under control, China will host the second Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations as part of our active efforts to promote inter-civilization dialogue in Asia and beyond.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
I have noted on various occasions that the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is a public road open to all, not a private path owned by one single party. All interested countries are welcome aboard to take part in the cooperation and share in its benefits. Belt and Road cooperation pursues development, aims at mutual benefits, and conveys a message of hope.
Going forward, we will continue to work with other parties in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. We will follow the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and champion the philosophy of open, green and clean cooperation, in a bid to make Belt and Road cooperation high-standard, people-centered and sustainable.
- We will build a closer partnership for health cooperation. Chinese businesses have already started joint vaccine production in BRI participating countries such as Indonesia, Brazil, the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia, Pakistan and Turkey. We will expand cooperation with various parties in infectious disease control, public health, traditional medicine and other areas to jointly protect the lives and health of people in all countries.
- We will build a closer partnership for connectivity. China will work with all sides to promote "hard connectivity" of infrastructure and "soft connectivity" of rules and standards, ensure unimpeded channels for trade and investment cooperation, and actively develop Silk Road e-commerce, all in a bid to open up a bright prospect for integrated development.
- We will build a closer partnership for green development. We could strengthen cooperation on green infrastructure, green energy and green finance, and improve the BRI International Green Development Coalition, the Green Investment Principles for the Belt and Road Development, and other multilateral cooperation platforms to make green a defining feature of Belt and Road cooperation.
- We will build a closer partnership for openness and inclusiveness. A World Bank report suggests that by 2030, Belt and Road projects could help lift 7.6 million people from extreme poverty and 32 million people from moderate poverty across the world. We will act in the spirit of openness and inclusiveness as we work with all willing participants to build the BRI into a pathway to poverty alleviation and growth, which will contribute positively to the common prosperity of humankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The year 2021 marks the centenary of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Over the last century, the CPC has striven forward against all odds in a relentless pursuit of happiness for the Chinese people, rejuvenation for the Chinese nation, and the common good for the world. As a result, the Chinese nation has achieved a great transformation from standing up to growing rich, and to becoming stronger, and has thus made a notable contribution to human civilization and progress. China will continue to play its part in building world peace, promoting global development, and defending international order.
China will stay committed to peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, develop friendship and cooperation with other countries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, and promote a new type of international relations. China will continue to carry out anti-COVID cooperation with the WHO and other countries, honor its commitment of making vaccines a global public good, and do more to help developing countries defeat the virus. However strong it may grow, China will never seek hegemony, expansion, or a sphere of influence. Nor will China ever engage in an arms race. China will take an active part in multilateral cooperation on trade and investment, fully implement the Foreign Investment Law and its supporting rules and regulations, cut further the negative list on foreign investment, continue to develop the Hainan Free Trade Port, and develop new systems for a higher-standard open economy. All are welcome to share in the vast opportunities of the Chinese market.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
"By setting sail together, we could ride the wind, break the waves, and brave the journey of ten thousand miles." We may at times encounter stormy waves and dangerous rapids, but as long as we pool our efforts and keep to the right direction, the giant vessel of human development will stay on an even keel and sail toward a brighter future.
Thank you.
First, we need to close ranks and make new advances in climate governance that features cooperation and win-win. In meeting the climate challenge, no one can be aloof and unilateralism will get us nowhere. Only by upholding multilateralism, unity and cooperation can we deliver shared benefits and win-win for all nations. China welcomes all countries' support for the Paris Agreement and their greater contribution to tackling climate change.
Second, we need to raise ambition and foster a new architecture of climate governance where every party does its part. Following the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, all countries need to maximize actions in light of their respective national circumstances and capabilities. At the same time, developed countries need to scale up support for developing countries in financing, technology and capacity building.
Third, we need to boost confidence and pursue a new approach to climate governance that highlights green recovery. Mountains and rivers green are mountains of silver and gold. It is important to encourage green, low-carbon ways of life and production, and seek development opportunities and impetus from green development.
Colleagues,
At present, the world still faces a grim situation of COVID-19. Economic recovery varies from country to country. The G20 needs to advocate the spirit of partnership and make efforts in the following five aspects:
First, G20 members need to stay united and work together to lead the way in the global fight against COVID-19. To deliver the outcomes of the Global Health Summit at a faster pace, the G20 needs to, in a science-based manner, step up cooperation on vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics, coordinate COVID-response efforts, and provide stronger support for developing countries. To date, China has provided over 450 million doses of vaccines to nearly 100 countries. We call on countries with the relevant capacity to refrain from imposing export restrictions and excessive hoarding, and do their part in closing the immunization gap.
Second, G20 members need to uphold multilateralism and rally more support for the stability of the international order. It is important for the G20 to lead by example and practice true multilateralism. We need to firmly uphold the UN-centered international system and international order underpinned by international law. We need to pursue openness and inclusiveness, and oppose seclusion and exclusion. We need to pursue win-win cooperation, and oppose zero-sum game. Multilateralism is not a high-sounding slogan, still less a facade for unilateralism.
Third, G20 members need to enhance openness and coordination, and forge greater impetus to global recovery. We G20 members need to adopt responsible macro-economic policies that have no spillovers to others and that serve the stability of international economic and financial systems. We need to make steadfast efforts to build an open world economy, and keep global supply and industrial chains secure and stable. We need to prevent fragmentation of the international market and politicization of cooperation mechanisms, and dismiss ideology-based rules and standards. We need to advance structural reform in pursuit of high-quality and resilient recovery.
Fourth, G20 members need to uphold inclusiveness and sharing, and garner stronger efforts for sustainable development. We need to scale up efforts to advance the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We need to conduct international climate cooperation in the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. We also need to prevent the formulation of new trade and investment barriers. China and African countries have jointly launched the Initiative on Partnership for Africa's Development. We welcome more countries and international organizations to join the Initiative.
Fifth, G20 members need to take a problem-oriented approach, and make the global governance system more responsive. We need to strengthen the role of the World Health Organization, and build up the global disease prevention and control system. We need to uphold the authority and effectiveness of the multilateral trading system, and resume the normal operation of the WTO Appellate Body as soon as possible. The 16th General Quota Review of the International Monetary Fund needs to be completed as scheduled. In new areas such as digital economy and AI, we need to shore up the weak links in the rules-making, so as to bring new impetus for world economic transformation and growth.
Colleagues,
The Communist Party of China (CPC) is about to celebrate its centenary. Over the past one hundred years, the CPC has rallied and led the Chinese people to embark on the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics that suits China and has strong support from the Chinese people. Such endeavors have benefited not only the Chinese people, but also the whole world. China has lifted over 700 million people out of poverty, contributing over 70 percent of the global poverty reduction. In the last 20 years after joining the WTO, China has fully honored its commitments upon the accession, and expanded its opening-up. China has contributed nearly 30 percent of global growth on annual average. At trying times such as the international financial crisis and COVID-19 pandemic, China never gives up solidarity and partnership with other countries.

Distinguished Guests,
Friends,
It is a great pleasure to join you at Tsinghua University for the 9th World Peace Forum. This year marks the first decade of the forum. Over the past ten years, the forum has embraced the trend of the times and focused on the world's most defining challenges. It has provided a source of wisdom for deeper understanding between China and the world and contributed its fair share to advancing world peace. Its global influence as a platform for exchange of ideas and insights is increasingly growing. At the outset, let me extend warm congratulations on the achievement of the forum and on the opening of its ninth edition.
Just two days ago, we held grand celebrations to mark the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC). In the important speech made on that occasion, General Secretary Xi Jinping gave a thorough account of the great accomplishments of the CPC leading the Chinese people through the past 100 years of struggle, and made a solemn declaration that China has realized the first centenary goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and is now marching in confident strides toward the second centenary goal of building a great modern socialist country in all respects. General Secretary Xi reviewed the course of history and envisioned the journey ahead, emphasizing that the CPC always keeps in mind the future of humanity and stands ready to work together with all progressive forces in the world on the way forward.
Throughout the past 100 years, the CPC has remained committed to peaceful development and worked tirelessly to uphold world peace and stability. The Chinese nation cherishes peace, amity and harmony, values that have been honored and carried forward throughout history. The CPC has written on its flag the faith in peace, development and win-win cooperation. From actively promoting an international united front against Fascism during the War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression to adopting an independent foreign policy of peace after the founding of New China, and from putting forward the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence to accurately identifying peace and development as the theme of our times, the CPC has unremittingly pursued the path of peaceful development. It has remained committed never to seek hegemony, territorial expansion or spheres of influence, and has achieved development by upholding world peace and promoted world peace through its own development.
Throughout the past 100 years, the CPC has remained committed to equity and justice and worked tirelessly for the freedom and emancipation of humanity. Since the first day of its founding, the CPC has dedicated itself to the pursuit of equity and justice and the emancipation of humanity. From adopting the first program of anti-imperialist and anti-feudal democratic revolution to giving unreserved support for the national liberation movements of Asian, African and Latin American countries in the 1960s and 1970s, from speaking up for developing countries at the United Nations and other international fora to taking a firm stand against the headwinds of unilateralism and bullying, the CPC has always stood on the side of equity and justice. At all times, we have underscored that all countries are equal, regardless of their size, strength and wealth, and stood against imposing one's own will on others, interfering in other countries' internal affairs, and the practice of the strong bullying the weak. We have always believed that international relations should be more democratic, and that global affairs should be run by all countries in the world through joint consultation, not dictated by those waving bigger fists. We have always remained convinced that justice will eventually prevail over power politics.
Throughout the past 100 years, the CPC has remained committed to win-win cooperation and worked tirelessly for the common development of all countries. History fully shows that China cannot do without the world in achieving development, and that the world also needs China for prosperity. From building an open economy to advancing Belt and Road cooperation, from providing developing countries with more assistance to promoting post-COVID global recovery, the CPC has acted out the win-win strategy of opening up, calling for cooperation and mutual benefit rather than confrontation and zero-sum games, and has provided the world with new opportunities through its new development progress. The successful practice of socialism with Chinese characteristics provides a new, China-style path towards modernization. It offers a new option for other developing countries to achieve modernization, and contributes to the world the China wisdom and China solution to development.
In the past 100 years, the CPC has traveled an extraordinary journey, and has remained true to its original aspiration and founding mission. In China, a communist party has been founded, and that has profoundly changed the future and destiny of the Chinese nation, and altered the landscape of development of the world. On its new journey toward the second centenary goal, the CPC is set to make new and still greater contribution to human progress and world peace and security.
Friends,
Our world is now going through a special period in history. It is facing the combined forces of a global pandemic and major changes, both unseen in a century, and witnessing a serious contest between multilateralism and unilateralism. The global governance system is going through unprecedented readjustment, and international peace and security faces serious challenges like never before. The theme of this year's forum, "International Security Cooperation in the Post-Pandemic Era: Upholding and Practicing Multilateralism", is thus most timely and relevant.
About the various types of confrontation, conflicts and governance dilemmas in today's world, their root cause may boil down to the lack of effective adherence to multilateralism and to the lack of full respect for international norms as underpinned by the UN Charter. Upholding and practicing true multilateralism is the right way forward in tackling complex issues and effectively countering security challenges, traditional and non-traditional, in today's world. It is also the surest way toward breaking the zero-sum game, resisting unilateralism and bullying, and truly achieving lasting peace and common security.
First, to uphold world peace and security, we need to jointly tackle pressing global challenges.
The most urgent task is to speed up efforts to build a great wall of immunization and secure an early victory against the pandemic. As we speak, the virus is still wreaking havoc across the world, posing a grave threat to the lives and health of the 7.6 billion people on earth. Countries need to view themselves as members of a global community of health for all, rise above political differences and spare no effort in joining the international response to the pandemic. To address the outstanding imbalance in vaccination, we must reject vaccine nationalism and work out proper ways to address issues regarding vaccine production capacity and distribution, and we must support the WHO in delivering the COVAX program, in order to close the global immunization gap. China has faithfully honored its promise of making vaccines a global public good. Despite the enormous need for vaccination at home, we have overcome difficulties and provided 480 million doses of vaccines to nearly 100 countries in need. Coming up next, we will continue to do our best to make vaccines more accessible and affordable to developing countries.
The origin-tracing of the coronavirus, a serious matter of science in nature, is the collective responsibility of all countries and should be carried out worldwide. China has taken part in relevant international cooperation in an open and transparent way, and has, on the basis of rigorous analysis and study, released a joint report on the origins of the virus with the WHO. On this particular question, we must firmly reject any attempt to politicize, label or stigmatize the virus. We must support medical experts and scientists in tracing the origins of the virus in multiple countries and regions in the spirit of professionalism, so that we could truly gain experience needed to prevent the next pandemic.
The global environmental governance is facing difficulties, and climate change has become a significant challenge. The international community needs to come up with unprecedented ambition and action, work together to foster a community of life for man and Nature and promote harmony between man and Nature. China is committed to shifting its growth model and promoting ecological conservation across the society to keep the environment clean and green. Recently, the elephant herd trekking northward in Yunnan province brought what was described as "tons of cuteness" to the world. From a unique angle, the story of these elephants reflected the progress China has made in caring for the environment and preserving harmony with Nature.
China will strive to deliver its commitment of peaking carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality before 2060. In the meantime, all parties need to shoulder common but differentiated responsibilities and work for the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. Developed countries in particular must meet their overdue pledge of funding, technology and capacity-building support to developing countries. China will host COP15 to the Convention on Biological Diversity and looks forward to working with all parties to make new contribution to promoting global biodiversity and protecting the global ecosystem.
The disposal of contaminated water from the Fukushima nuclear plant concerns the global marine environment and the life and health of people in all countries. The issue should and must be handled transparently. The Japanese government should pay full attention to the legitimate concerns of the international community and must not discharge the contaminated water to the ocean before consensus is reached with stakeholders and international agencies through consultation. This year marks the 80th anniversary of Japan starting the Pacific War. We hope the Japanese side will draw serious lessons from history and make a responsible choice.
In recent years, terrorism and other non-traditional security challenges are getting more and more salient. The international community needs to step up coordination, focus on priorities, take a holistic approach, and address both the symptom and root cause of terrorism. It should fully implement relevant UN counter-terrorism strategies and resolutions, and in particular, it should take active measures of de-radicalization to eradicate the source of terrorism. China's Xinjiang region was once plagued by terrorism and extremist ideologies. In recent years, we have taken preventive counter-terrorism and de-radicalization efforts in the region in accordance with the law, and achieved remarkable results. To date, Xinjiang has been free from violent terrorist incident for over four years in a row. China's achievements in combating terrorism are widely recognized and commended by the international community. All rumors and smears would pale when compared to facts and the truth. There should be no double standards on counter-terrorism and de-radicalization, still less should terrorism or radicalization be associated with a particular country, an ethnic group, or a religion.
Second, to uphold world peace and security, we need to work together to push for political settlement of global hotspot issues.
President Xi Jinping pointed out that the world is not tranquil, and that peace needs to be protected. The pandemic has brought new turmoil to some countries and regions. Hotspot issues are reemerging. Geopolitics is once again on the rise. World peace is not yet secured. China is ready to shoulder its responsibility and play a constructive role for the peace of the region and the entire world.
On Afghanistan, the most pressing task is to maintain stability and prevent war and chaos. The situation in Afghanistan is at a critical juncture, and the country is once again faced with the grave challenge of moving toward war or peace, chaos or stability. The United States, which created the Afghan issue in the first place, should act responsibly to ensure a smooth transition in Afghanistan. It should not simply shift the burden onto others and withdraw from the country with the mess left behind unattended. The withdrawal must not give rise to chaos and war. As a friendly neighbor of Afghanistan connected by the same mountains and waters, China always supports firmly the Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace and reconciliation process. We have put forward a five-point proposal lately. The key point is that we hope that all parties in Afghanistan will give priority to the interests of the country and the people, keep the momentum of intra-Afghan negotiations, work out the roadmap and timetable of reconciliation as soon as possible, and jointly build a broad-based and inclusive political framework for the future. We are ready to work with other regional countries and the international community to promote the peace and reconciliation process, help Afghanistan strengthen its internal dynamism for development and reconstruction, and gradually bring about a virtuous cycle of peace and development.
On Myanmar, the most central task is to promote internal dialogue and realize political reconciliation. The twists and turns in Myanmar's democratic transition process are in essence the country's domestic affairs. They should be settled by political means as soon as possible through dialogue and consultation within the framework of its constitution and laws. Violence should be avoided, and social stability should be restored as early as possible. The international community should truly respect Myanmar's sovereignty and the choice of its people, do more that can help narrow differences, and refrain from imposing unilateral sanctions and inappropriate intervention. As Myanmar's "pauk-phaw" brother, China sincerely hopes to see peace and stability in the country, and firmly supports ASEAN in working in the ASEAN way for a "soft landing" of the situation. We stand ready to join ASEAN in providing Myanmar with anti-COVID supplies and economic assistance, and will continue to make good use of our friendly relations with various parties in Myanmar to help with their communication and play good offices.
On the Korean Peninsula, the most important principle is to keep to the general direction of equal-footed dialogue and peaceful settlement. The nuclear issue on the Peninsula has dragged on for nearly 30 years, going through ups and downs. We always believe that dialogue and consultation and peaceful settlement is the fundamental principle, taking phased and synchronized actions is the inevitable tactic, and seeking parallel progress in denuclearization and the establishment of a peace mechanism is the right way forward. China attaches importance to the recent signals from the DPRK and the US, and supports all words and actions that are conducive to maintaining dialogue and easing tensions on the Peninsula. The US needs to reconsider its incessant military threats and pressure on the DPRK over the decades, and acknowledge and address DPRK's legitimate concerns. Given the measures that the DPRK has taken toward denuclearization and easing the situation, the US should show its sincerity and make a response. In addition, the UN Security Council needs to invoke the rollback terms of the DPRK-related resolutions in due course and help the DPRK improve its economy and people's livelihood. The Korean Peninsula issue is a matter at the doorstep of China. We will, as always, continue to play the constructive role for the realization of enduring peace and stability on the Peninsula.
On the Palestine-Israel issue, the most fundamental goal is to deliver to the Palestinian people their long overdue justice. Lasting peace can hardly be achieved without justice being its foundation. The two-state solution represents the consensus of the international community, and manifests fairness and justice. Only through early resumption of peace talks on the basis of the two-state solution, can the Palestinian issue be resolved fairly, and lasting peace in the Middle East be achieved. In May this year during the most serious conflict between Palestine and Israel since 2014, China, as the UN Security Council's rotating president, facilitated five Council meetings to review the situation, helped the issuance of a press statement of the President, urged the parties concerned to fully observe the ceasefire, and called for assistance to the Palestinian people. Today, I would like to once again urge the relevant countries to take a fair position, abandon their selfish interests, show conscience and courage, and play their due role in rebuilding trust, promoting peace and negotiations, and providing humanitarian assistance. China will always bear in mind peace in the Middle East, and will continue to uphold justice and fairness.
On the Iranian nuclear issue, the most critical is for the US to make an earlier decision to rejoin the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). As a product of 13 years of hard negotiations, the JCPOA is an important outcome of multilateralism and a classic example of settling disputes through dialogue and consultation. The US unilateral withdrawal from the JCPOA and its maximum pressure on Iran are the root causes of the current Iranian nuclear crisis. As the saying goes, "He who tied the bell should untie it." Naturally, the US should correct its wrongdoings. To start with, it should lift, fully, unreservedly and thoroughly, its illegal unilateral sanctions on Iran and third parties, so as to encourage Iran to move in the same direction and to push for breakthroughs in the negotiations. China will continue to participate in the negotiations constructively to bring the JCPOA back on track. In the meantime, we will also firmly safeguard our legitimate and lawful rights and interests. The Iranian nuclear crisis management and security in the Gulf region should be considered together as a whole. China has proposed a dialogue platform for regional security in the Persian Gulf to discuss and address the legitimate security concerns of various parties. We are ready to stay in close touch with other parties on this.
Third, to uphold world peace and security, we need to join hands together to oppose dangerous practices of stoking division and confrontation.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of the end of the Cold War, a war that produced no winner and inflicted severe pains on the world. History and reality keep reminding us that a divided world cannot cope with humanity's common challenges, and a world of confrontation will bring disaster to mankind. We must firmly oppose the acts of inciting confrontation and division, and remove all the obstacles to international and regional peace and security.
We must categorically oppose bloc confrontation. Zero-sum game reflects the Cold War mentality. It has long before failed to meet the expectation of countries for peace, development and cooperation. The so-called "Indo-Pacific strategy", which is aimed at provoking bloc confrontation, is an attempt to form a small clique for geopolitical rivalry. It is the revival of the Cold-War mentality and regression of history. It should be swept into the dustbin. Dreaming the old dream of hegemony during the Cold War will not secure a promising future, still less "build back a better world". Instead, all countries should work together to cultivate a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, equity, justice and win-win cooperation.
We must categorically oppose power politics. Flaunting now and then its purpose to safeguard the "rules-based international order" and using it to pressure on other countries is just another version of power politics. In reality, this is an attempt to impose one's own will and standards on others, and to replace the commonly accepted international laws and norms with the house rules of a few countries. What rules should the international order be based on? And what exactly is the order that should be safeguarded? These terms must be clearly defined, and there should be no vagueness or evasiveness. China's position is very clear: The system that is recognized by all countries can only be the UN-centered international system; the order that is to be jointly upheld by all countries can only be the international order based on international law; and the rules that are observed by all countries can only be the basic norms governing international relations founded on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.
We must categorically oppose interference in other countries' internal affairs. Respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in each others' internal affairs are stipulated in the UN Charter, and they are the important basic norms governing international relations. They are the foundation for ensuring world peace and stability. They are also the safeguard for developing countries to uphold their own security and achieve independent development. China never interferes in other countries' internal affairs, and never obstructs others' development. And we absolutely do not accept meddling in our internal affairs by any country, or any foreign attempt to halt our development. Today's China is no longer the same country of one hundred years ago. No individual and no force should underestimate the firm determination and strong capacity of the Chinese people to uphold the country's sovereignty, security and development interests.
Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory. This is a basic fact universally recognized by the international community. To advance the peaceful reunification of the motherland is an established policy the Chinese government has always upheld. For some time, certain forces in the US have been making desperate and reckless moves on the Taiwan question, and kept emboldening and encouraging the Taiwan-independence separatist elements. This is extremely wrong and dangerous! Let me make this clear to these forces: China's full reunification is a trend of history that no one can stop, and it is a trend of our times that no external force can disrupt.
In the past few years, Hong Kong suffered from rampant turbulence and many violent terrorist acts. The root cause of all this was that some local political elements colluded with foreign forces and blatantly clamored for Hong Kong independence, posing a serious threat to China's national security and One Country, Two Systems in Hong Kong. The Central Government could not simply sit idly by, and turbulence must not continue in Hong Kong. It is therefore totally justified, lawful and reasonable for us to promptly advance legislation on safeguarding national security in Hong Kong and improve the electoral system of the Special Administrative Region. The rule of law has been restored and improved in Hong Kong. The implementation of One Country, Two Systems will be sound and sustained.
Friends,
The motto of Tsinghua University, "Self-discipline and social commitment", reflects the enterprising spirit and broad vision of the Chinese nation. It also speaks volumes about China's commitment to making greater contribution to humanity as a responsible major country. In the face of the common challenges to mankind, China will promote the common values of humanity, uphold true multilateralism, actively implement the new security vision, and work with all countries to safeguard world peace and security and build a world of lasting peace and common security.
Colleagues,
Last September, at the High-level Meeting to Commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the United Nations, President Xi Jinping expounded on the essence of multilateralism and underscored the importance of sticking to multilateralism as the path forward. Leaders of all nations also reiterated, in the declaration on the commemoration of UNs 75th anniversary, that multilateralism is not an option but a necessity.
The United Nations is the banner of multilateralism. To pursue multilateralism, we must follow the basic norms governing international relations built around the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, uphold the authority and stature of the UN, and ensure its central role in international affairs. That is what it means to practice multilateralism, an intrinsic nature that is absolutely incompatible with unilateralism.
As the world goes through a raging pandemic and profound changes rarely seen in a century, we need to firmly commit to the path of cooperation, mutual benefit and win-win, and to put true multilateralism into practice. In this context, China wishes to propose the following:
We should engage in win-win cooperation, not zero-sum games. The more complex the global issues are, the greater the need for collective response. The more daunting the challenges facing all humanity, the greater the need for solidarity and unity of our heart. What is needed is dialogue and cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual respect among all countries. No country should expect others to lose. Rather, countries must work together to ensure all come out as winners and to achieve security and prosperity for all.
We should pursue equity and justice, not bullying or hegemony. Promoting democracy in international relations is central to ensuring international equity and justice. It is essential that all countries share the responsibilities of global governance and work together for peace and development. The key is to promote law-based international relations, observe universally recognized international laws and norms, and honor international agreements adopted by all parties. International rules must be based on international law, and must be written by all. They are not a patent or a privilege of a few. They must be applicable to all countries, and there should be no room for exceptionalism or double standards.
We should focus on action rather than rhetoric. Multilateralism means taking actions and finding solutions. Otherwise, it will not stand its ground and will not sustain. The actions we take must not be short-sighted. We must always act in the common interests of all, and bear in mind that each and every country will benefit from what is best for the world. The actions we take must also serve long-term needs in addition to immediate ones. And no action should be taken for the sake of expediency at the expense of the long-term peace and sustainable development of the whole world. Major countries in particular must lead by example to provide global public goods.
We should respect diversity instead of seeking ones own supremacy. Every country has its unique history and culture, and needs to take a path of development suited to its own realities. This diversity, together with the common values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, will unleash the great power of multilateralism. On the other hand however, splitting the world along the ideological line conflicts with the spirit of multilateralism and is a regression in history.

Friends,
The year 2021 is very important for China. We will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party of China, implement the 14th Five-Year Plan in all respects, and embark on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country.
The year 2021 is also crucial for the world. At the recent World Economic Forum Virtual Event of the Davos Agenda, President Xi Jinping pointed out that the four major tasks of our times are to promote world economic growth, abandon ideological prejudice, close the North-South divide, and tackle global challenges. And the solution is to uphold multialteralism and build a community with a shared future for mankind. His important propositions have been well received in the international community. They have pointed out the direction for addressing global challenges and promoting human progress.
In the new year, we in the diplomatic service of China will continue to follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, meet the challenges head on and step up to our responsibilities. We will deepen friendship and cooperation and expand converging interests with countries around the world, and make our best efforts to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
We will stand in solidarity with countries across the globe to secure an early victory against COVID-19. The world won't be safe until the virus is defeated in each and every country. China will continue to do its best to assist countries in need. We will deliver on our commitment of making vaccines a global public good, help achieve vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries, and steadily cement the strong line of defense against the virus globally.
We will work with other countries to boost global economic recovery and development. We will open more "fast tracks" and "green lanes", accelerate the development of the green Silk Road, health Silk Road and digital Silk Road, keep the global industrial and supply chains stable and smooth, and scale up support for other developing countries. We will foster a new development paradigm in China, and through this, provide a more robust driving force for global economic recovery.
We will step up exchanges with other countries to safeguard international peace and stability. We will further elevate the China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era, enhance political mutual trust and practical cooperation with the EU, and promote a community with a shared future in the Asia-Pacific. We will step up the building of China-Africa, China-Arab and China-Latin America and Caribbean communities with a shared future to enhance solidarity and friendship with fellow developing countries.
The China-U.S. relationship is the most important bilateral relationship in the world. It stands now at an important juncture. In the interest of both peoples and the world as a whole and in the spirit of no conflict, no confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation, we are ready to restart dialogue and consultations, manage properly the differences, focus on mutually beneficial cooperation, and bring the bilateral relationship back on the track of sound and steady development.
We will collaborate with other countries to promote fairer and more equitable global governance. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the restoration of China's lawful seat at the UN. This year is also the 20th anniversary of China's accession to the World Trade Organization. A review of the past sheds light on the future. With greater resolve, China will advocate and promote multilateralism. With greater enthusiasm, China will participate in building a more effective multilateral mechanism led by the UN, and contribute to a fairer and more equitable global governance system.
We will stand together with other countries, rain or shine, to take good care of our Mother Earth. For humanity, the Earth is our one and only home. This year, China will host the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity. This year will also see a number of important international events on climate change and environmental protection. These are good opportunities for countries to make the Earth a better home, where humanity can live in harmony with nature and embrace sustainable development.
Friends,
Our world is now going through a special period in history. It is facing the combined forces of a global pandemic and major changes, both unseen in a century, and witnessing a serious contest between multilateralism and unilateralism. The global governance system is going through unprecedented readjustment, and international peace and security faces serious challenges like never before. The theme of this year's forum, "International Security Cooperation in the Post-Pandemic Era: Upholding and Practicing Multilateralism", is thus most timely and relevant.
About the various types of confrontation, conflicts and governance dilemmas in today's world, their root cause may boil down to the lack of effective adherence to multilateralism and to the lack of full respect for international norms as underpinned by the UN Charter. Upholding and practicing true multilateralism is the right way forward in tackling complex issues and effectively countering security challenges, traditional and non-traditional, in today's world. It is also the surest way toward breaking the zero-sum game, resisting unilateralism and bullying, and truly achieving lasting peace and common security.
First, to uphold world peace and security, we need to jointly tackle pressing global challenges.
The most urgent task is to speed up efforts to build a great wall of immunization and secure an early victory against the pandemic. As we speak, the virus is still wreaking havoc across the world, posing a grave threat to the lives and health of the 7.6 billion people on earth. Countries need to view themselves as members of a global community of health for all, rise above political differences and spare no effort in joining the international response to the pandemic. To address the outstanding imbalance in vaccination, we must reject vaccine nationalism and work out proper ways to address issues regarding vaccine production capacity and distribution, and we must support the WHO in delivering the COVAX program, in order to close the global immunization gap. China has faithfully honored its promise of making vaccines a global public good. Despite the enormous need for vaccination at home, we have overcome difficulties and provided 480 million doses of vaccines to nearly 100 countries in need. Coming up next, we will continue to do our best to make vaccines more accessible and affordable to developing countries.
The origin-tracing of the coronavirus, a serious matter of science in nature, is the collective responsibility of all countries and should be carried out worldwide. China has taken part in relevant international cooperation in an open and transparent way, and has, on the basis of rigorous analysis and study, released a joint report on the origins of the virus with the WHO. On this particular question, we must firmly reject any attempt to politicize, label or stigmatize the virus. We must support medical experts and scientists in tracing the origins of the virus in multiple countries and regions in the spirit of professionalism, so that we could truly gain experience needed to prevent the next pandemic.
The global environmental governance is facing difficulties, and climate change has become a significant challenge. The international community needs to come up with unprecedented ambition and action, work together to foster a community of life for man and Nature and promote harmony between man and Nature. China is committed to shifting its growth model and promoting ecological conservation across the society to keep the environment clean and green. Recently, the elephant herd trekking northward in Yunnan province brought what was described as "tons of cuteness" to the world. From a unique angle, the story of these elephants reflected the progress China has made in caring for the environment and preserving harmony with Nature.
China will strive to deliver its commitment of peaking carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality before 2060. In the meantime, all parties need to shoulder common but differentiated responsibilities and work for the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. Developed countries in particular must meet their overdue pledge of funding, technology and capacity-building support to developing countries. China will host COP15 to the Convention on Biological Diversity and looks forward to working with all parties to make new contribution to promoting global biodiversity and protecting the global ecosystem.
The disposal of contaminated water from the Fukushima nuclear plant concerns the global marine environment and the life and health of people in all countries. The issue should and must be handled transparently. The Japanese government should pay full attention to the legitimate concerns of the international community and must not discharge the contaminated water to the ocean before consensus is reached with stakeholders and international agencies through consultation. This year marks the 80th anniversary of Japan starting the Pacific War. We hope the Japanese side will draw serious lessons from history and make a responsible choice.
In recent years, terrorism and other non-traditional security challenges are getting more and more salient. The international community needs to step up coordination, focus on priorities, take a holistic approach, and address both the symptom and root cause of terrorism. It should fully implement relevant UN counter-terrorism strategies and resolutions, and in particular, it should take active measures of de-radicalization to eradicate the source of terrorism. China's Xinjiang region was once plagued by terrorism and extremist ideologies. In recent years, we have taken preventive counter-terrorism and de-radicalization efforts in the region in accordance with the law, and achieved remarkable results. To date, Xinjiang has been free from violent terrorist incident for over four years in a row. China's achievements in combating terrorism are widely recognized and commended by the international community. All rumors and smears would pale when compared to facts and the truth. There should be no double standards on counter-terrorism and de-radicalization, still less should terrorism or radicalization be associated with a particular country, an ethnic group, or a religion.
Second, to uphold world peace and security, we need to work together to push for political settlement of global hotspot issues.
President Xi Jinping pointed out that the world is not tranquil, and that peace needs to be protected. The pandemic has brought new turmoil to some countries and regions. Hotspot issues are reemerging. Geopolitics is once again on the rise. World peace is not yet secured. China is ready to shoulder its responsibility and play a constructive role for the peace of the region and the entire world.
On Afghanistan, the most pressing task is to maintain stability and prevent war and chaos. The situation in Afghanistan is at a critical juncture, and the country is once again faced with the grave challenge of moving toward war or peace, chaos or stability. The United States, which created the Afghan issue in the first place, should act responsibly to ensure a smooth transition in Afghanistan. It should not simply shift the burden onto others and withdraw from the country with the mess left behind unattended. The withdrawal must not give rise to chaos and war. As a friendly neighbor of Afghanistan connected by the same mountains and waters, China always supports firmly the Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace and reconciliation process. We have put forward a five-point proposal lately. The key point is that we hope that all parties in Afghanistan will give priority to the interests of the country and the people, keep the momentum of intra-Afghan negotiations, work out the roadmap and timetable of reconciliation as soon as possible, and jointly build a broad-based and inclusive political framework for the future. We are ready to work with other regional countries and the international community to promote the peace and reconciliation process, help Afghanistan strengthen its internal dynamism for development and reconstruction, and gradually bring about a virtuous cycle of peace and development.
On Myanmar, the most central task is to promote internal dialogue and realize political reconciliation. The twists and turns in Myanmar's democratic transition process are in essence the country's domestic affairs. They should be settled by political means as soon as possible through dialogue and consultation within the framework of its constitution and laws. Violence should be avoided, and social stability should be restored as early as possible. The international community should truly respect Myanmar's sovereignty and the choice of its people, do more that can help narrow differences, and refrain from imposing unilateral sanctions and inappropriate intervention. As Myanmar's "pauk-phaw" brother, China sincerely hopes to see peace and stability in the country, and firmly supports ASEAN in working in the ASEAN way for a "soft landing" of the situation. We stand ready to join ASEAN in providing Myanmar with anti-COVID supplies and economic assistance, and will continue to make good use of our friendly relations with various parties in Myanmar to help with their communication and play good offices.
On the Korean Peninsula, the most important principle is to keep to the general direction of equal-footed dialogue and peaceful settlement. The nuclear issue on the Peninsula has dragged on for nearly 30 years, going through ups and downs. We always believe that dialogue and consultation and peaceful settlement is the fundamental principle, taking phased and synchronized actions is the inevitable tactic, and seeking parallel progress in denuclearization and the establishment of a peace mechanism is the right way forward. China attaches importance to the recent signals from the DPRK and the US, and supports all words and actions that are conducive to maintaining dialogue and easing tensions on the Peninsula. The US needs to reconsider its incessant military threats and pressure on the DPRK over the decades, and acknowledge and address DPRK's legitimate concerns. Given the measures that the DPRK has taken toward denuclearization and easing the situation, the US should show its sincerity and make a response. In addition, the UN Security Council needs to invoke the rollback terms of the DPRK-related resolutions in due course and help the DPRK improve its economy and people's livelihood. The Korean Peninsula issue is a matter at the doorstep of China. We will, as always, continue to play the constructive role for the realization of enduring peace and stability on the Peninsula.
On the Palestine-Israel issue, the most fundamental goal is to deliver to the Palestinian people their long overdue justice. Lasting peace can hardly be achieved without justice being its foundation. The two-state solution represents the consensus of the international community, and manifests fairness and justice. Only through early resumption of peace talks on the basis of the two-state solution, can the Palestinian issue be resolved fairly, and lasting peace in the Middle East be achieved. In May this year during the most serious conflict between Palestine and Israel since 2014, China, as the UN Security Council's rotating president, facilitated five Council meetings to review the situation, helped the issuance of a press statement of the President, urged the parties concerned to fully observe the ceasefire, and called for assistance to the Palestinian people. Today, I would like to once again urge the relevant countries to take a fair position, abandon their selfish interests, show conscience and courage, and play their due role in rebuilding trust, promoting peace and negotiations, and providing humanitarian assistance. China will always bear in mind peace in the Middle East, and will continue to uphold justice and fairness.
On the Iranian nuclear issue, the most critical is for the US to make an earlier decision to rejoin the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). As a product of 13 years of hard negotiations, the JCPOA is an important outcome of multilateralism and a classic example of settling disputes through dialogue and consultation. The US unilateral withdrawal from the JCPOA and its maximum pressure on Iran are the root causes of the current Iranian nuclear crisis. As the saying goes, "He who tied the bell should untie it." Naturally, the US should correct its wrongdoings. To start with, it should lift, fully, unreservedly and thoroughly, its illegal unilateral sanctions on Iran and third parties, so as to encourage Iran to move in the same direction and to push for breakthroughs in the negotiations. China will continue to participate in the negotiations constructively to bring the JCPOA back on track. In the meantime, we will also firmly safeguard our legitimate and lawful rights and interests. The Iranian nuclear crisis management and security in the Gulf region should be considered together as a whole. China has proposed a dialogue platform for regional security in the Persian Gulf to discuss and address the legitimate security concerns of various parties. We are ready to stay in close touch with other parties on this.
Third, to uphold world peace and security, we need to join hands together to oppose dangerous practices of stoking division and confrontation.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of the end of the Cold War, a war that produced no winner and inflicted severe pains on the world. History and reality keep reminding us that a divided world cannot cope with humanity's common challenges, and a world of confrontation will bring disaster to mankind. We must firmly oppose the acts of inciting confrontation and division, and remove all the obstacles to international and regional peace and security.
We must categorically oppose bloc confrontation. Zero-sum game reflects the Cold War mentality. It has long before failed to meet the expectation of countries for peace, development and cooperation. The so-called "Indo-Pacific strategy", which is aimed at provoking bloc confrontation, is an attempt to form a small clique for geopolitical rivalry. It is the revival of the Cold-War mentality and regression of history. It should be swept into the dustbin. Dreaming the old dream of hegemony during the Cold War will not secure a promising future, still less "build back a better world". Instead, all countries should work together to cultivate a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, equity, justice and win-win cooperation.
We must categorically oppose power politics. Flaunting now and then its purpose to safeguard the "rules-based international order" and using it to pressure on other countries is just another version of power politics. In reality, this is an attempt to impose one's own will and standards on others, and to replace the commonly accepted international laws and norms with the house rules of a few countries. What rules should the international order be based on? And what exactly is the order that should be safeguarded? These terms must be clearly defined, and there should be no vagueness or evasiveness. China's position is very clear: The system that is recognized by all countries can only be the UN-centered international system; the order that is to be jointly upheld by all countries can only be the international order based on international law; and the rules that are observed by all countries can only be the basic norms governing international relations founded on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.
We must categorically oppose interference in other countries' internal affairs. Respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in each others' internal affairs are stipulated in the UN Charter, and they are the important basic norms governing international relations. They are the foundation for ensuring world peace and stability. They are also the safeguard for developing countries to uphold their own security and achieve independent development. China never interferes in other countries' internal affairs, and never obstructs others' development. And we absolutely do not accept meddling in our internal affairs by any country, or any foreign attempt to halt our development. Today's China is no longer the same country of one hundred years ago. No individual and no force should underestimate the firm determination and strong capacity of the Chinese people to uphold the country's sovereignty, security and development interests.
Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory. This is a basic fact universally recognized by the international community. To advance the peaceful reunification of the motherland is an established policy the Chinese government has always upheld. For some time, certain forces in the US have been making desperate and reckless moves on the Taiwan question, and kept emboldening and encouraging the Taiwan-independence separatist elements. This is extremely wrong and dangerous! Let me make this clear to these forces: China's full reunification is a trend of history that no one can stop, and it is a trend of our times that no external force can disrupt.
In the past few years, Hong Kong suffered from rampant turbulence and many violent terrorist acts. The root cause of all this was that some local political elements colluded with foreign forces and blatantly clamored for Hong Kong independence, posing a serious threat to China's national security and One Country, Two Systems in Hong Kong. The Central Government could not simply sit idly by, and turbulence must not continue in Hong Kong. It is therefore totally justified, lawful and reasonable for us to promptly advance legislation on safeguarding national security in Hong Kong and improve the electoral system of the Special Administrative Region. The rule of law has been restored and improved in Hong Kong. The implementation of One Country, Two Systems will be sound and sustained.
Friends,
The motto of Tsinghua University, "Self-discipline and social commitment", reflects the enterprising spirit and broad vision of the Chinese nation. It also speaks volumes about China's commitment to making greater contribution to humanity as a responsible major country. In the face of the common challenges to mankind, China will promote the common values of humanity, uphold true multilateralism, actively implement the new security vision, and work with all countries to safeguard world peace and security and build a world of lasting peace and common security.
Dear Friends,
I am pleased to be invited to the Global Town Hall today and join you in this important discussion on "Rebuilding from the COVID-19 World".
The outgoing year of 2020 will make its mark in human history. The sudden onslaught of COVID-19 shocked the world in every possible way. In less than a year, international travel has virtually come to a halt. Trade has notably contracted. Global economy is mired in a deep recession. And political and social turbulence has exacerbated in some countries. The impact of COVID-19, compounded with major changes unseen in a century, has brought the international situation to a new watershed.
Yet it is by overcoming tribulations and crises one after another that humanity emerges stronger and makes greater progress. As President Xi Jinping stated at this year's UN General Assembly, the courage, resolve and compassion demonstrated by humanity in the face of this major disaster has lit the dark hour. The virus will be defeated, and humanity will win. To contain the raging virus and plan for the post-COVID world, countries need to draw experience and lessons from the disaster, build consensus and strength through collective response, and work together to usher in a better future for humanity.
We believe that countries need to fight for an early victory against COVID-19 through enhanced solidarity and cooperation. The coronavirus is still wreaking havoc worldwide. Some countries are seeing an even more ferocious resurgence than the earlier outbreaks. No one can stay immune from the crisis, and we are all in this together.
As one of the first countries to effectively contain the coronavirus, China will continue to leverage its strengths to advance international cooperation on epidemic response, and share its experience on containment and treatment with other countries. We will continue to provide support and assistance to countries and regions in need, and deliver our solemn commitment of making COVID-19 vaccines a global public good. We will continue to fully engage with the World Health Organization and other parties, and actively pursue a global community of health for all.
We believe that countries need to improve the global governance system through strengthened multilateral coordination. This once-in-a-century pandemic once again tells us that no country can solve its own problems through a beggar-thy-neighbor policy or zero-sum approach. And such practices offer no solution to global challenges either. Multilateral governance may not be perfect, but it provides the basic framework for tackling global challenges. Multilateralism may have been challenged, but it remains the basic guarantee for countries to survive and thrive.
As a responsible major country, China will continue to advocate and practice multilateralism, firmly uphold the UN-centered international system, and firmly defend the basic norms governing international relations underpinned by the UN Charter. Meanwhile, under the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, we will continue to work with all countries to promote necessary reform and improvement of the global governance system, so that it can balance equity and efficiency more properly, respond to global challenges more quickly and effectively, and better reflect the justified and legitimate demands of emerging markets and developing countries. All this will make the global governance system more equitable, reasonable, inclusive and beneficial for all.
We believe that countries need to promote global economic recovery through greater openness and integration. What has happened shows that COVID-19 cannot and will not stop the prevailing trend toward economic globalization or regional integration. Seeking "decoupling" or "erecting walls" is self-destructive in the long run. Retreating to isolationism and protectionism is anachronistic. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), formally signed a few days ago, marked the establishment of the world's largest free trade area. With concrete actions, participating countries have sent a clear message of their shared commitment to openness and cooperation.
As a major economy in the world, while keeping COVID-19 response measures in place, China will continue to work with other countries to improve "fast tracks" and "green lanes" for the movement of people and goods, and keep the global supply chain stable. China will stay committed to the win-win strategy of opening-up, and build a new and open economic system of higher standard. It will strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation with other countries bilaterally and under multilateral mechanisms, advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and contribute its share to the early recovery of the global economy.
We believe that countries need to safeguard peace and development in their regions through enhanced dialogue and mutual trust. East Asia, our shared home, is the most vibrant region in the world with the biggest development potential. The hard-won peace and stability of East Asia should not be taken for granted. Attempts to create division and confrontation and to form exclusive geopolitical blocs in the region would give rise to great security risks.
As a responsible country in East Asia, China will remain guided by its neighborhood policy of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness. In promoting cooperation, China will continue to advocate the spirit of mutual respect, the principle of openness and inclusiveness, and a development-centered approach. It will firmly support ASEAN centrality, and stay committed to properly handling disputes with countries concerned through dialogue and consultation. It stands ready to work with ASEAN countries to safeguard regional peace and stability, and work with the whole international community to build a post-COVID world that enjoys lasting peace, prosperity, stability, and fairness and justice.
Friends,
Winter is always followed by Spring, and dark night will be brightened up by the light of dawn. We are confident that if all countries truly come together and forge ahead side by side, our world will emerge from the pandemic more prosperous, and that humanity will embrace a better future.
Friends,
A noble cause carries everyone forward; and compassion knows no borders. When Hubei and Wuhan battled COVID-19, China received support and assistance from many other countries. When infections began to spread around the world, China also did its best to extend a helping hand to other countries. The unprecedented pandemic has driven home to all of us that the world is indeed a community with a shared future where all rise and fall together. As President Xi Jinping puts it, there is only one earth and one shared future for humanity. Be it in coping with the current crisis or in making the world a better place for everyone, we must stay in solidarity and work together as one.
As we speak, COVID-19 is still raging in the world and the world economy is still grappling with the risk of a recession. As a responsible major country, China has fought the pandemic for the common good, not just for China itself; China has pursued shared prosperity, not just its own development. Here is what China will do going forward:
We will uphold solidarity and mutual assistance as we work with other countries to prevail over the coronavirus. Vaccines hold the key in the battle against COVID-19. China opposes "vaccine nationalism" and believes that vaccines must be made a global public good. This is what we have been saying and what we have been doing. We have donated supplies to over 160 countries and international organizations and are providing, by various means, vaccines to over 100 countries and international organizations in urgent need, thus giving a strong boost to the global COVID response. China will continue to fully harness its strengths to keep the global supply chains for COVID supplies stable; China will continue to provide humanitarian assistance and support countries in need; and China will stay committed to making COVID vaccines a public good above anything else so that safe and effective vaccines can be affordable and accessible to more developing countries.
We will uphold openness and cooperation as we work with other countries to promote world economic recovery. The world may be full of uncertainties, but that is not the case with China's future. We have made a good start in implementing the 14th Five-Year Plan, and are moving toward the Long-Range Objectives through the Year 2035 and developing new systems for a higher-standard open economy at a faster pace. As a country pursuing high-quality development, China will further unleash the potential of its huge market to bring new development opportunities to all countries. As a country in the process of further opening up, China will deepen mutually beneficial cooperation with other countries to inject more impetus to world economic recovery.
We will uphold multilateralism as we work with other countries to build a community with a shared future. Humankind is a global community. China opposes imposing hierarchy on countries and forming groups along ideological lines. The rights to life, health, survival, and development must be equally enjoyed by people of all countries. In this world, we need more understanding, less prejudice, and more cooperation, less confrontation. China will stay committed to the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, follow the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, uphold true multilateralism, and safeguard the international order based on the UN Charter. China will continue to improve the global governance system and build a global community of health for all. China will work with other countries to maintain world peace and stability, bridge the development gap, and create a brighter future for all.
Friends,
This year marks the centenary of the Communist Party of China. Over the past century, the CPC has stayed committed to a relentless pursuit and rallied the Chinese people in a historic transformation that sees the nation standing up, growing rich, and becoming stronger. Hubei, a heroic land, has a special place in the history of the CPC. It is home to 235 generals who were instrumental in the founding of the People's Republic. It is also home to many important historic events in the early days of the CPC. I hope that in this special year, you will have a chance to visit Hubei to see and feel for yourselves the great spirit of Hubei and Wuhan in fighting the pandemic, and experience the founding mission of the CPC and its journey of outstanding achievements over the past one hundred years.
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the ninth Ministerial Conference of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process via video link. At the outset, I wish to thank the co-chairs, Tajikistan and Afghanistan, for preparing this Conference. While some of us could not attend the Conference in person due to COVID-19 or other reasons, I believe we all share a strong desire and firm resolve to advance peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan. I would like to wish this Conference a full success and positive outcomes.
This year marks the 10th anniversary of the launch of the Istanbul Process. Over the past decade, thanks to the full support of all parties concerned and the broader international community, this multilateral cooperation mechanism has played a constructive role in promoting peace, stability and development in Afghanistan and the whole region. With the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan standing at a crucial juncture, there is a rare, historic opportunity for a political settlement of the Afghan issue. In this sense, the theme of this Conference, "Strengthening Consensus for Peace and Development", is most fitting and meaningful. Peace is an urgent priority and a prerequisite for development; development is a perpetual pursuit and a guarantee for peace.
The Istanbul Process involves all of Afghanistan's neighbors and major countries in the region, as well as many international players supportive of the Process. Under the changing circumstances, the role of this mechanism in making peace, promoting development and building consensus has become all the more important. China expects all parties to deepen cooperation in the following three areas:
First, sustaining the momentum of peace talks and reconciliation in Afghanistan. The Intra-Afghan Negotiations have started. This is a hard-won progress. The Afghan issue can only be resolved by political means, and the future of Afghanistan should be kept in the hands of the Afghan people. All parties to the peace talks must act with a sense of responsibility to history, to the people, and to the country. They must stay confident and patient, and strive for broad-based, inclusive and durable peace through sincere dialogue and negotiations. International supporting parties should abide by the "Afghan-led, Afghan-owned" principle, put aside self-interests, uphold fairness and justice, and contribute more positive energy to the peace and reconciliation process.
Second, adding impetus to reconstruction and development in Afghanistan. While Afghanistan has made big strides in economic and social development in recent years, it lacks internal drivers of growth. All parties should provide more targeted support for Afghanistan to enhance its capability of independent development, get integrated into regional economic development, and grow into a hub of connectivity and a bridge of economic integration in the heart of Asia. Currently, the implementation of the China-Afghanistan MOU on Belt and Road cooperation is well underway, and China has provided several billion yuan in grant to Afghanistan. During the COVID-19 pandemic, China has delivered multiple batches of medical supplies and emergency food assistance to Afghanistan, and will soon provide free vaccines to Afghanistan. China will continue to host the Vice Ministers' Meeting on Trade and Connectivity with Afghanistan and Central Asian countries, in a bid to create more development opportunities for the Afghan people.
Third, keeping to the overall direction of counter-terrorism cooperation regarding Afghanistan. Terrorism is a serious challenge for countries in the region and a common enemy of humanity. It will be ill-advised to follow double standards in counter-terrorism, as they will backfire at the end of the day. All parties need to join forces and double down on fighting terrorist organizations like Al-Qaida, ISIS and the ETIM until they are completely eliminated. Foreign troops should withdraw from Afghanistan in a responsible and orderly way, so as to prevent the various terrorist forces from ramping up and creating trouble. In this context, China will continue to strengthen coordination and deepen cooperation with all other parties concerned.
China is a friendly neighbor of Afghanistan. We will continue to do the best we can to support, mediate and facilitate Afghanistan's peace and reconciliation process. We will work in concert with all other parties of the Istanbul Process and the international community to bring peace to every corner of Afghanistan at an early date and deliver the benefits of development to the entire Afghan people. With our joint support and help, Afghanistan will embrace a brighter future.
As we bid farewell to winter and usher in spring, the change of seasons shows that the chills of winter will eventually melt away and the hopes of spring are just around the corner. Humanity must not lose confidence facing the unprecedented common challenges of the global pandemic, economic recession and climate change. We must stand up to them with courage, solidarity and responsibility. As two major countries, China and the United States should first take care of their own stuff and at the same time, they should also work together for the common good of humankind. This is the expectation of the international community and the due responsibility of major countries. On the Lunar New Year's eve, President Xi Jinping and President Joe Biden had their first telephone call. President Xi underscored China's principled position that it is willing to work with the Unites States, in the spirit of no conflict, no confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation, to focus on cooperation, manage differences, and promote sound and steady development of China-U.S. relations. The two Presidents had in-depth exchange of views at length, and agreed that the two countries should enhance mutual understanding and avoid misperception and miscalculation; they should treat each other with candor and sincerity and not seek conflict or confrontation; and they should unclog communication channels and facilitate exchange and cooperation. This very important phone call has oriented China-U.S. relations that had been struggling to ascertain its bearings at a crossroads. It has also sent out the first encouraging news of this spring for the two countries and the whole world.
Friends,
In the past few years, China-U.S. relations deviated from the normal track, and ran into the biggest difficulties since the establishment of diplomatic ties. The root cause was that the previous U.S. administration, out of its own political needs, seriously distorted China's future path and policy, and on that basis, took various measures to suppress and contain China, which inflicted immeasurable damage to bilateral relations. Today, to right the wrongs and bring the relationship back to the right track, the walls of misperceptions must be torn down first to clear the way for knowing, observing, and understanding China as it is.
China is a country that always upholds and promotes people's democracy. Over a long time, Western countries have either seriously distorted or misunderstood China on democracy. In fact, democracy is not a patent of a few countries. It is a common value of humanity. There are various ways to realize democracy, and there is no fixed model or standard answer. True democracy must be rooted in the realities of a country and serve its people. The socialist democracy practiced by China upholds the organic unity of the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC), the running of the country by the people, and law-based governance. It is a whole-process democracy. Important legislation and policy-making must go through set procedures and extensive discussions, and the final decision must be made on the basis of scientific and democratic deliberations. It is the most representative democracy where people's matters are widely consulted for the greatest common denominator that suits the will of the whole society. For example, when drafting the 14th Five-year Plan, the Chinese government placed importance on the views from various sectors, and collected over one million comments and recommendations from online channels alone. Facts have shown that China's socialist democracy embodies the will of the people and fits the country's realities. It is thus endorsed by the people, and has made special, important contributions to the progress of political civilization of humankind.
China is a country that is always committed to protecting and promoting human rights. As the largest developing country, China takes a people-centered approach to human rights. We believe that the rights to subsistence and development are basic human rights of paramount importance. At the same time, we strive for comprehensive and coordinated development of economic, social and cultural rights as well as civil and political rights. Over the past 70 plus years since the founding of the People's Republic, China's per capita GDP has risen from less than U.S.$30 to over U.S.$10,000. More than 800 million people have been lifted out of poverty. We have eliminated abject poverty for the first time in China's thousands years of history. Places inhabited by ethnic minorities, such as Xinjiang and Tibet, have stood out as shining examples of China's human rights progress.
In the past 60 years and more, Xinjiang's GDP expanded by over 200 times, with per capita GDP growing by nearly 40 times. And its average life expectancy increased from 30 to 72. In fighting COVID-19, we have made the utmost efforts to protect the right to life and health for each and every Chinese, and at all cost, we have curbed the spread of the virus in the fastest possible speed, and have done our best to raise the cure rate and lower the fatality rate. This has made it possible for the society and the economy to recover quickly.
China is a country that always values and safeguards world peace. China has benefited from world peace in its development, and has contributed to world peace in turn with its development. In the past 70 years and more, we didn't provoke any war or occupy one inch of foreign territory. We seek to settle differences through dialogue and resolve disputes through negotiation. We have no intention to export ideology. Nor do we attempt to overturn the government of any country. We always stay on the new path of state-to-state relations to seek dialogue instead of confrontation and teaming up instead of ganging up. We actively participate in the good offices on hotspot issues. China is the second largest contributor to the UN's regular budget and peacekeeping assessment. It is also the largest contributor of peacekeepers among the five permanent members of the UN Security Council.
China is a country that always advocates and pursues win-win cooperation. We take win-win cooperation as an important principle in our diplomacy. We believe in shared interests and common good. We help fellow developing countries with sincerity and good faith, and we do not attach political strings or impose our wills. In the past seven years since we launched the Belt and Road Initiative, China's trade in goods with partner countries surpassed U.S.$7.8 trillion, and direct investment in those countries topped U.S.$110 billion. All this has been helpful for local employment and economic growth. Despite the global economic recession, China has hosted international import expos for three years to share with other countries the Chinese market opportunities. At the moment, China is following the new development vision, fostering a new development paradigm featuring "dual circulations", with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other, and advancing opening-up at a higher level. This means a bigger market and more development opportunities for other countries.
China is a country that always practices and upholds multilateralism. China firmly believes in multilateralism. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the restoration of China's lawful seat at the United Nations. During these five decades, China has upheld the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, supported the UN in exercising its authority and playing its due role. We believe that all countries are equal, regardless of their size. And we firmly promote greater democracy in international relations. We never seek to form small circles targeted at other countries. We never take actions unilaterally outside the authorization by the UN. When unilateralism and protectionism ran amok in the last few years, China immediately stepped forward to resist the tendency, and took concrete actions to uphold the basic norms of international relations and safeguard the common interests of developing countries. As UN Secretary-General Antnio Guterres put it, China has become a backbone of multilateralism and an indispensable and trustworthy force for world peace and development.
China now is in an epoch-making year. We will celebrate the centenary of the CPC. The American people have come to know about the CPC for at least 85 years since Edgar Snow visited Yan'an in 1936. From the revolution years to reform and opening-up, from completing the building of a moderately prosperous society to fully building a modern socialist country, the CPC is always committed to the eternal great cause of the Chinese nation. It is showing even stronger vigor and vitality at its 100th anniversary.
We know that the new U.S. administration is reviewing and assessing its foreign policy. We hope that U.S policy makers will keep pace with the time, see clearly the trend of the world, abandon biases, give up unwarranted suspicions, and move to bring the China policy back to reason to ensure a healthy and steady development of China-U.S. relations.
In 2020, our world went through a pandemic and global changes, both of a scale unseen in a century. It was truly an extraordinary year for both China and the world.
Over the past year, the momentum of human progress suffered a setback and humanity faced consequential choices. COVID-19 caught us all by surprise. It threatened lives and public health across the world. People's livelihood and well-being was hit hard by the ensuing economic recession. In an increasingly fluid and changing world, anachronistic practices of unilateralism and protectionism were on the rise, driven by resurgent power politics and Cold War mentality.
At the same time, the evolution of the international landscape was speeding up. The new scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation were gathering momentum. Humankind gained a more profound appreciation of the need for embracing a shared future. At this watershed moment, the vast majority of the international community are calling for solidarity over division, openness over isolation, and cooperation over confrontation.
Over the past year, the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese nation overcame tough challenges and opened up new prospects for the future. Facing the devastating impact of COVID-19 and a complex international environment, the entire nation rallied behind a common purpose under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core. China was the first to contain the virus, to pursue international cooperation against COVID, to reopen the economy safely and to restore economic growth. The country met the historic target of ending extreme poverty on schedule and secured decisive achievements in fully establishing a moderately prosperous society. Such progress has put China on course to realize its First Centenary Goal.
The Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee set out a great vision for China's development in the next five years and beyond and launched a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country, marking a giant step toward the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
Over the past year, China pursued major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics and made solid progress. Guided by Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, and with presidential diplomacy charting the course, we in the diplomatic service focused on forging a joint international response to COVID-19 and met the challenges head on. We rose to the occasion with proactive steps and fought the coronavirus and the "political virus" at the same time. We took concrete actions as a major, responsible country to advance the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. Our actions helped to create a sound international environment for national development and rejuvenation and made new, major contributions to world peace and development.

Presidential diplomacy and leadership has set the direction for China's external relations, sending a strong message of solidarity in a challenging time. It provides a source of strength and stability in a time of enormous uncertainty. After the onset of the once-in-a-century pandemic, General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out that the history of human civilization is also one of fighting diseases and disasters. Virus does not respect borders, nor does it distinguish between races. Humankind is a community with a shared future, and solidarity and cooperation is the most powerful weapon to defeat COVID-19.
With global vision and responsibility as the leader of a major country, General Secretary Xi Jinping engaged in intensive diplomacy. He held 88 meetings or phone calls with world leaders and heads of international organizations and attended 23 multilateral events, including the Extraordinary G20 Leaders' Summit on COVID-19, the 20th Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), the 12th BRICS Summit, the 27th APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and the 73rd World Health Assembly. General Secretary Xi Jinping proposed building a global community of health for all, and called for fighting an all-out global war against COVID-19, making a collective response at the international level, supporting the role of the World Health Organization (WHO) and other international organizations, and enhancing macroeconomic policy coordination. These proposals guided China's diplomatic outreach throughout this period, added new dimensions to China's relations with other countries, and helped to build the broadest possible consensus on fighting COVID-19 together. They were warmly received by the international community.
We have carried out anti-COVID diplomatic actions in the spirit of compassion and humanitarianism, demonstrating a strong sense of responsibility. As a Chinese saying aptly puts it, "A just cause finds great support and compassion knows no borders." Since the start, China has worked with WHO and the international community in an open, transparent, science-based and responsible manner. Being the first to report cases, China has since publicized key information including the genome sequencing and published guidelines for treatment and containment at the first opportunity. We have organized over 100 video meetings with experts of other countries and opened an online knowledge center for sharing experience of COVID response with all countries. We have firmly supported the lead role of WHO, and provided funding to the organization and the UN Global Humanitarian Response Plan.
At a time when our country was still grappling with the virus, we launched the largest humanitarian campaign since the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949. We have provided assistance to over 150 countries and 10 international organizations and sent 36 expert teams to 34 countries in need. As the world's largest manufacturer of medical supplies, we have provided countries around the world with over 220 billion masks, 2.3 billion protective suits and one billion testing kits. We have also advanced R&D collaboration on drugs and vaccines and cross-border prevention and control. These are but a few examples of China's strong desire to promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
We have stood at the forefront of fighting for our country's rights and interests with firm and robust diplomacy. In everything we do, we bear in mind the big picture and the fundamental interests of our country. We have taken a clear stand against misguided US moves to politicize and label the virus and pushed back against the "political virus". We have refuted slanders and smears against China's political system and path and defended China's political system and the leadership of the Party.
We have thwarted attempts to meddle in China's internal affairs through issues relating to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet. We have upheld China's sovereign independence and the basic norms governing international relations. We have taken firm and proper steps in the handling of disputes over territorial boundaries and maritime rights and interests, resolutely safeguarding national sovereignty and territorial integrity. With justice on our side, we have exposed disinformation, scapegoating and blame-shifting and set the record straight, leaving behind an objective and truthful account of what has happened. We have taken firm counter-measures against unilateral sanctions and "long-arm jurisdiction" on the spurious grounds of "national security", thereby protecting China's dignity and the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies and citizens.
We have deepened opening-up and cooperation, reinforcing our commitment to mutual benefit and win-win outcomes. The tides of reform are sweeping across China. Reform and opening-up is accelerating across the board, as evidenced by the implementation of the new Foreign Investment Law and the further shortening of the negative list for foreign investment to just 33 items. With these steps, China is opening its door even wider to the world. We have set out to foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. By vigorously boosting domestic demand, we are providing greater market opportunities for the world and broader space for international cooperation.
China's mutually beneficial cooperation with other countries has continued to move forward despite COVID-19, providing an important underpinning for global recovery. The Belt and Road cooperation has demonstrated great resilience and vitality. The China-Europe Railway Express has hit new records in both the number and the volume of freight services. It has been compared to a "steel camel fleet" that vigorously supported COVID response by countries along its route. At a high-level video conference on Belt and Road cooperation held recently, the participants agreed to work toward a Silk Road for Health, adding another building block to high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. The third China International Import Expo was a success. It was attended by over 3,600 companies from more than 150 countries and regions and resulted in intended deals worth US$72.62 billion. The China market is increasingly becoming a boon for the world, shared by all and accessible to all.
We have advanced relations with major countries in a holistic manner, upholding the overall framework for strategic stability. Mutual trust is essential in major-country relations. The unity and friendship between China and Russia is rock-firm and unbreakable. General Secretary Xi Jinping has had five phone calls with President Vladimir Putin, which guided the continuous growth of China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era. The two countries have steadily enhanced cooperation in COVID response and many other areas, and worked in concert to uphold the victorious outcome of World War II as well as international fairness and justice. Together, China and Russia have become pillars of stability in a fluid international landscape.
Celebrating the 45th anniversary of diplomatic ties, China and the European Union (EU) have strengthened coordination and cooperation, deepened mutual trust, upheld multilateralism and tackled global challenges together. The two sides signed an agreement on geographical indications and decided to build partnerships for green and digital cooperation. Negotiations for the China-EU investment agreement were concluded on schedule. Closer cooperation in all these areas is adding new dimensions to the China-EU comprehensive strategic partnership.
The past year witnessed the most challenging situation in China-US relations since the establishment of diplomatic ties over four decades ago. In response to US bullying and provocations, China took justified, firm and proportionate counter-measures to resolutely defend national sovereignty, security and development interests, to firmly uphold the norms of international relations and international fairness and justice, and to vigorously safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of many countries, developing countries in particular. In the meantime, China's policy toward the United States is stable and consistent. Determined and cool-headed, China has handled and managed its differences with the US in a constructive fashion, and made its contributions to strategic stability in the international system.
We have deepened and expanded partnerships, taking global cooperation to a higher level. Solidarity and mutual help are crucial in trying times. During 2020, we took new steps toward building a community with a shared future with our neighbors. We realized a stable transition in China-Japan relations despite a change of administration, handled China-India relations with prudence, and engaged in productive cooperation with the Republic of Korea on resuming economic interactions in the context of COVID-19. General Secretary Xi Jinping's visit to Myanmar ushered in a new era for the bilateral ties. Building a community with a shared future has become a broad consensus in Asia-Pacific cooperation. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) was signed. This major development, together with China's announcement of favorably considering joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), are a strong boost to confidence in eventually building a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific. Premier Li Keqiang attended the leaders' meetings for East Asian cooperation. China and ASEAN marked a historic milestone of becoming each other's largest trading partners. China and the five Central Asian countries launched a mechanism of foreign ministerial meeting.
Solidarity and cooperation between China and other developing countries showed new vibrancy. The Extraordinary China-Africa Summit on Solidarity Against COVID-19 was a success. There were productive interactions under dialogue mechanisms with Latin American and Caribbean countries and with Arab states. China supported other developing countries with needed medical and other supplies, and pushed for the accessibility and affordability of COVID vaccines in the developing world. China also took an active part in developing and implementing the G20's Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI), and co-hosted with the UN a high-level video conference on poverty eradication and South-South cooperation. From fighting the coronavirus and restoring the economy to building a shared future, China worked closely with its neighbors and fellow developing countries, thus enhancing mutual solidarity and friendship through a challenging period.
We have pushed global governance forward against all odds, demonstrating the power of multilateralism. As the saying goes, one needs to stand tall and see far, through the obscuring mist. In the face of pushback and setbacks to global governance, General Secretary Xi Jinping has made China's proposition clear at several major multilateral meetings. He elaborated on China's firm commitment to multilateralism, to the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and to building a community with a shared future for mankind. pointing the way forward for the global governance reform.
Working with the rest of the international community, China has firmly upheld the international system with the UN at its core, the international order underpinned by international law, and the multilateral trading regime with the World Trade Organization (WTO) as the cornerstone. We have supported efforts to bring more democracy to international relations and make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all.
China has followed the tide of history. It has taken part in international cooperation on climate change in a responsible manner, and undertaken to strive to peak CO2 emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. This is China's contributions to global ecological preservation. In the same spirit, China has proposed a Global Initiative on Data Security aimed at fostering an international cyberspace featuring peace, security, openness and cooperation.
China has stood on the side of international justice. It has firmly upheld the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) on the Iranian nuclear issue and put forward a constructive proposal of building a platform for multilateral dialogue for the Gulf region. China has continued to advocate the phased and synchronized approach to achieve the two goals of denuclearization and establishment of a peace mechanism on the Korean Peninsula. China has supported advancing intra-Afghan talks and mediated between Bangladesh and Myanmar in addressing their disagreements. Through these efforts, China has explored a distinctive Chinese way of resolving hotspot issues.
We have worked all out to serve the development of our country, breaking new ground in people-centered diplomacy. The people's wish is what we should strive for. In the early days of the epidemic, we helped mobilize life-saving medical supplies from around the world to address the pressing needs back home. With infections rising globally, we worked with fellow Chinese at home and abroad to build a strong line of defense at our borders and preserve the hard-won gains in containing COVID-19 at home. As the economy gradually reopened, we took creative steps to open "fast tracks" and "green lanes" for the movement of people and goods, which has helped to keep industrial and supply chains stable and open and bolster domestic economic recovery and social development.
We have stayed committed to the people-centered principle in our work, kept in mind the safety and well-being of every fellow countryman and woman abroad, and carried out consular protection missions across the world. We urged the governments of host countries to pay more attention to addressing the difficulties encountered by overseas Chinese citizens. We set up online telemedicine platforms and offered prompt support to those infected. We delivered more than 1.2 million health kits to overseas Chinese students, sent emergency medical supplies to our nationals in 100-plus countries, and arranged over 350 ad hoc flights to bring home stranded fellow countrymen. With our consular protection hotline 12308 operating 24/7, we have extended the bond of love linking overseas Chinese with their motherland to every corner of the world, and conveyed the solicitude of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council to everyone.

The year 2021 will be a year of historic importance in China's national rejuvenation. It will be the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party of China and the inaugural year of China's 14th Five-Year Plan. China will embark on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country and realizing its Second Centenary Goal.
Guided by Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, we in the diplomatic service will build on our past achievements and continue to forge ahead. We will explore new opportunities and break new ground amid crises and changes, and make new contributions to realizing China's national rejuvenation and building a community with a shared future for mankind.
We will stick to the overall direction of our diplomatic work. Adhering to the CPC leadership and socialism with Chinese characteristics is a built-in, defining feature of China's diplomacy. We will unswervingly strengthen the Party's centralized, unified leadership in foreign-related work and wholeheartedly serve presidential diplomacy to demonstrate the unique appeal of major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics in the new era. As we celebrate the 100th birthday of the CPC, we will better communicate to the world the CPC's track record of governance, the Chinese people's extraordinary journey toward the Chinese dream, and China's commitment to peaceful development. Through better communications, we hope the world will get a more accurate understanding of the CPC's original aspiration and mission and of socialism with Chinese characteristics. China will increase friendly interactions with the rest of the world to enhance mutual understanding and mutual trust between the Chinese and the peoples around the world.
We will do our best to serve our national development strategies. We will foster a keen awareness of the features of China's new development stage and promote the new development philosophy. We will better integrate the domestic and international markets and resources to create a favorable external environment for fostering a new development paradigm and launching the 14th Five-Year Plan. We will support both epidemic control on an ongoing basis and economic and social development. While locking in the gains in fighting COVID-19, we will open more "fast tracks" for travel and "green lanes" for shipments of cargo, establish joint pandemic response mechanisms with more countries, and advance global vaccine cooperation. We will host a new round of events to present Chinese provinces and economically important regions that have emerged stronger from the test of COVID-19, and help build bridges with the world for the opening and development of our country and its different localities. We will develop an all-round consular network to protect the safety and legitimate rights and interests of overseas Chinese citizens and institutions.
We will keep fostering a new type of international relations. We will deepen comprehensive strategic coordination with Russia to form a bulwark for peace, security and strategic stability in the world. We will work for an upgrade in our relations with Europe by enhancing mutual trust, increasing consensus and expanding practical cooperation. A US return to a more sensible China policy should be encouraged. We hope the US will work with China to review experience and lessons and, on that basis, reopen dialogue, resume cooperation and rebuild trust. It is time for the two countries to jointly build a strategic framework for the sound and steady growth of the bilateral relations and find a path for countries of different social systems to live in peace.
We will take solid steps to advance international and regional cooperation. We will work for the early entry into force of the RCEP agreement, push forward the China-Japan-ROK free trade process, and advance the building of the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation Economic Development Belt. We believe these efforts will help cultivate greater awareness of an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future. We will step up the building of China-Africa, China-Arab and China-Latin America and Caribbean communities with a shared future to enhance China's solidarity and friendship with fellow developing countries. We will contribute our share to the poverty alleviation, debt reduction and disaster mitigation of other developing countries, and support them in building capacity for self-generated development. We will keep our commitment to make COVID-19 vaccines, once available, a global public good.
We will scale up openness and cooperation. China will stay committed to fostering a new system of open economy of higher standards to fully unlock the potential of its vast market and domestic demand. China will contribute to global recovery with its own development and share more development opportunities with the world. China will stay firmly opposed to protectionism of whatever forms, and work with other countries to keep the global industrial and supply chains stable and smooth as part of an open world economy. We will advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and accelerate the development of the health Silk Road, digital Silk Road and green Silk Road to benefit more countries and peoples.
We will take a proactive part in the reform of global governance. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the restoration of China's lawful seat at the UN and the 20th anniversary of its accession to the WTO. China will continue to uphold multilateralism, follow the principles of openness and inclusiveness, carry out mutually beneficial cooperation, and move forward with the times. We will give full play to the central position and role of UN agencies in international affairs. As the host of the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity next year, China will endeavor to make the meeting a success and join other parties in exploring new strategies for global biodiversity governance and building a shared future for all life on Earth. China will enhance cooperation within the frameworks of the G20, APEC, the SCO and BRICS to address global challenges such as climate change, cybersecurity and public health. We will call for joint efforts to draw up rules on global digital governance and develop a more equitable global governance system.
We will endeavor to build a community with a shared future for mankind. Since General Secretary Xi Jinping propose the building of a community with a shared future for mankind, the initiative has been constantly enriched both at the conceptual level and in diplomatic practices. From China's old friends to new cooperation partners, from China's neighborhood to the wider regions of Asia, Africa and Latin America, and from bilateral relations to multilateral issues, this important vision has been expanded in both scope and depth, and gained growing understanding and support. We will continue to call on all countries to rise above differences of ideology, social systems and development stages, uphold the values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom shared by all countries, and work together for an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world of lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.
Having reached the centennial milestone, we will remain true to our original aspiration and step up to our responsibilities for the great journey ahead. We in the diplomatic service will rally more closely behind the Party Central Committee with comrade Xi Jinping at its core, keep firmly in mind the need to maintain political integrity, think in big-picture terms, uphold the leadership core and keep in alignment, reaffirm confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and uphold General Secretary Xi Jinping's core position in both the CPC Central Committee and the CPC as a whole and uphold the authority and centralized, unified leadership of the Central Committee. Bearing in mind our mission of striving for the well-being of the Chinese people and contributing to the progress of humankind, we will continue to shoulder our responsibilities for our country and for the world, open new ground in advancing major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics, and make new and bigger contributions to the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
Twenty years ago, shortly after the adoption of the United Nations Millennium Declaration, Chinese and African leaders gathered in Beijing to inaugurate FOCAC. A new era was thus opened for China-Africa relations. Over the two decades, by acting along the prevailing trend of peace, development and cooperation, FOCAC has established itself as a pacesetter for cooperation with Africa, a champion of multilateralism, and a fine example of mutually beneficial cooperation.
Over the past 20 years, FOCAC has come a long way in strengthening China-Africa solidarity and friendship. It has grown into a big family where all are equal members bound by brotherly ties and treat each other with respect, regardless of size or strength. We have carried forward the profound friendship forged in our struggles for national liberation. We have firmly supported each other on issues concerning core interests and major concerns. We have stood together in upholding the banner of multilateralism, fairness and justice. Together, we have elevated the international standing and influence of developing countries and safeguarded the overall interests of the developing world.
Over the past 20 years, FOCAC has come a long way in boosting common development of China and Africa. In 2019, trade between China and Africa hit US$208.7 billion, and total Chinese FDI in Africa reached US$49.1 billion, grown by 20-fold and 100-fold respectively compared with 20 years ago. We have jointly formulated and implemented the ten cooperation plans (adopted at the Johannesburg Summit) and the eight major initiatives (adopted at the Beijing Summit). Dozens of economic and trade cooperation zones and industrial parks are up and running across Africa. China has built for Africa over 6,000 kilometers of railways and the same mileage of roads, nearly 20 ports and over 80 large-scale power plants, and more than 130 medical facilities, 45 stadiums and 170 or so schools. These infrastructures have made a big difference in Africa's economic and social development. The African Union (AU) Conference Center, the Mombasa-Nairobi railway, and the Maputo-Katembe Bridge, key projects in Africa's drive to achieve the "Century Dream", have been dedicated one after another, and stand as monumental symbols of the shared development of China and Africa.
Over the past 20 years, FOCAC has come a long way in enhancing the friendship between the Chinese and African peoples. Mechanisms, such as the Think Tank Forum, the People's Forum, the Press Center and the Youth Festival, are playing a greater role as bridges of friendship. To date, China has provided some 120,000 government scholarships, and opened 61 Confucius Institutes and 44 Confucius Classrooms in 46 African countries. As many as 21,000 Chinese medical personnel have worked, or are working, in 48 African countries, providing treatment to around 220 million African people. When West Africa was raged by Ebola in 2014, over 1,000 Chinese health professionals defied the dangers and rushed to their help. Today, facing COVID-19, China and Africa have again come together in a joint fight. Last June, President Xi Jinping and African leaders convened an extraordinary summit, sending a powerful message of shared commitment to defeating the virus with solidarity. Time and again, we have supported each other through thick and thin, forging an enduring China-Africa friendship that continues to grow from strength to strength.
Friends,
China is the world's largest developing country. Africa is the continent with the largest number of developing countries. While the past two decades have been extraordinary for FOCAC, they have also seen the Chinese people striving for national rejuvenation and African countries pursuing strength through unity. In this great historical journey, China and Africa have always been there for each other. We have shown the world that with hard work, countries who are still in the process of development can build a better life for their people; and with self-reliance and exploration, China and African countries can find our own path toward prosperity that suits our national conditions.
Friends,
The world is undergoing changes unseen in a century, and COVID-19 is accelerating the evolution of the international order. The new challenge calls for new responsibility, and the new situation calls for new actions. How to make sure that China-Africa relations will seize the trend of the times and scale new heights? How to build on our achievement and further upgrade and enhance China-Africa cooperation? How to enable FOCAC to meet the challenges and achieve progress in creative ways? To answer these questions, China would like to share the following propositions with our African friends.
First, we need to strengthen solidarity and build a stronger community with a shared future. At the 2018 FOCAC Beijing Summit, leaders of China and Africa agreed to build a stronger China-Africa community with a shared future. The new international circumstances we face today further underscore the importance of this strategic decision, a decision that has become more relevant than ever. We must remain guided by the principle of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith and the principle of pursuing the greater good and shared interests. We need to firmly support each other in safeguarding national sovereignty and dignity, in independently pursuing a development path suited to national realities, and in protecting legitimate rights to development and achieve national rejuvenation together through joint efforts.
Second, we need to tide over the current challenge together and build a China-Africa community of health for all. China will continue to work with Africa to fully deliver on the outcomes of the FOCAC Beijing Summit and the Extraordinary China-Africa Summit on Solidarity Against COVID-19, with greater focus on public health, economic reopening and improvement of livelihoods. I would like to reaffirm China's firm commitment to making its vaccines a global public good. When the development of the vaccines is completed and they are available for use, China will actively consider providing them to African countries in need to help secure an early victory against the virus.
Third, we need to pursue win-win cooperation to build a China-Africa community of development for all. China will continue to support Africa in enhancing infrastructure, advancing industrialization and building up capacity for independent development. China welcomes the development of the African Continental Free Trade Area, and will provide cash assistance and capacity-building training to its Secretariat. China and Africa need to deepen free trade cooperation and better connect industrial and supply chains so that Africa can better access the vast China market and join the international economic circulation. China is also ready to work with Africa on a framework of strategic cooperation on climate change to jointly tackle this challenge.
Fourth, we need to embrace our responsibilities and work toward a community with a shared future for mankind. China and Africa are staunch supporters of multilateralism and important forces for world peace and development. We need to take on our historic duty to firmly safeguard the UN's central role in international and multilateral affairs, defend basic norms governing international relations, and uphold multilateralism, fairness and justice. We must work in concert in addressing global challenges and participating in global governance. By doing so, we will bring about a more equitable and reasonable international order and an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.
Friends,
FOCAC is a valuable asset for China and Africa. We must keep pace with the times to ensure that the Forum remains a shining example of China-Africa relations. The next FOCAC meeting is scheduled to be held next year in Senegal. China is ready to work with Africa to make good preparations on the arrangements and deliverables of the meeting. We hope the meeting will create greater synergy between China's second centenary goal and the AU's Agenda 2063, form new consensus on China-Africa solidarity, explore new cooperation areas, and bring new benefits to the Chinese and African peoples. We hope the meeting will take the China-Africa comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership to a new height.
Friends,
We live in a new, momentous era. We are standing at the threshold of a new chapter to be added to history. No matter how the world may change and no matter what challenges may come up ahead, cooperation between China and Africa will never stop, and the efforts to build a better and stronger FOCAC will never stop. Let us join our efforts to stand up to challenges, strive for high quality in our cooperation and open up a far brighter future for China-Africa relations.
China supports Vietnam's initiative of convening this High-level Open Debate. I welcome President Nguyn Xun Phc's chairing of the Debate and thank Secretary-General Guterres for his briefing.
Cooperation with regional organizations by the UN is an express requirement of the UN Charter and an important manifestation of multilateralism. As the world struggles against the shock waves from the profound changes in the international landscape compounded by the once-in-a-century pandemic, we face pronounced challenges to international peace and security and complex interplay of traditional and non-traditional security issues. All this calls for joint efforts from both the regional and global levels. It requires the UN and regional organizations to work together to assess the past, draw lessons, carry forward fine traditions, strive for creativity, uphold multilateralism, and contribute to world peace and global development. In this context, I wish to share a few thoughts:
First, it is crucial to observe the norms and cement the foundation for peace. The whole body of these norms is the UN Charter, the bedrock of cooperation between the UN and regional organizations. In conducting peace operations, regional organizations need to observe the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, respect sovereignty and territorial integrity of the countries concerned, and avoid interfering in those countries' internal affairs. The peaceful settlement of dispute should be pursued whenever possible, and the use or threat of force must be rejected. The role of the Security Council as the core of the international collective security mechanism must be upheld, and self-centered practices must be abandoned. We must advocate openness and inclusiveness. Geopolitics, bloc politics and any provocation of ideological confrontation must be rejected. Only by following these principles can regional organizations' efforts succeed and sustain.
Second, it is imperative to prioritize prevention and diversify the tools for upholding peace. The UN and regional organizations need to follow a security concept that promotes common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and diversify the toolkit for peace with preventive diplomacy as the priority. Peace talks should be encouraged to narrow differences through dialogue, resolve disputes through mediation, and find a political settlement of hotspot issues. It is also important to make good use of UN peacekeeping operations, uphold the principle of impartiality, and respect the will and choice of the people of the countries concerned. Enforcement operations must be authorized by the UN Security Council.
Third, it is important to complement each other and create a synergy for peace. The UN and its Security Council need to serve as effective coordinators and provide more assistance to regional organizations. Regional organizations, in turn, should leverage their own strengths to help address regional disputes in a way suited to regional realities. The two sides may share experience and best practices and engage in flexible and pragmatic cooperation. In recent years, the UN has been moving in the right direction by stepping up coordination with regional organizations such as the AU and ASEAN. The UN should help Africa enhance its own capacity for peacekeeping, stability and counter-terrorism, and accelerate the development of the African Standby Force, the rapid response forces, and an early-warning mechanism. It should provide sustainable and predictable financing assistance to AU's peace and security operations, and support "Silencing the Guns in Africa" initiative. The international community should respect and uphold ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation. Under the current circumstances, supporting ASEAN's constructive participation in Myanmar's domestic reconciliation process in an ASEAN way and de-escalating tensions in Myanmar as soon as possible serves the interests of the people of Myanmar and the international community.
Fourth, it is essential to pursue common development and prepare the ground for peace. For many regional hotspots, the ultimate way out lies in development. The UN and regional organizations need to fully appreciate the significance of development in promoting peace, take an integrated approach to peace keeping, peace building and post-war reconstruction, and help countries in need access timely development funds and resources. In essence, the fulfillment of the 2030 Agenda, better lives and employment, and narrowing development gaps are the best policies for long-term peace and security. In this connection, inter-regional cooperation and connectivity and efforts to integrate post-conflict countries into regional development have great significance as they can bring the dividends of peace to all.
Mr. President,
This year marks the 50th anniversary of the restoration of China's lawful seat at the United Nations. Throughout the five decades, China has been an active supporter to and participant in the cause of the UN, and a firm defender and practitioner of the UN Charter. China has also consistently supported and actively contributed to stronger cooperation between the UN and regional and sub-regional organizations. In fact, a considerable portion of China's UN Peace and Development Trust Fund has gone to support regional and sub-regional organizations. China has announced to donate 300,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines to UN peacekeepers, with priority given to missions in Africa. We would also support it if these vaccines are to be used for peacekeeping missions by regional and sub-regional organizations.
To date, China has established strategic partnerships with regional organizations including the AU, ASEAN and the Arab League. The partnerships are founded on our common understanding of a shared future and are consistent with the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. Guided by the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, our partnerships aim for win-win cooperation. They are never targeted against any third party.
- China has been promoting cooperation with the AU in the spirit of pursuing the greater good and shared interests and according to the principle of sincerity, real results, affinity, and good faith. A few months ago, we signed the Belt and Road cooperation plan with the AU, and will continue to forge synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative, AU's Agenda 2063 and UN's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. China supports AU's leading role in the African integration process, and encourages the AU to find African solutions to African issues and make continuous contributions to peace and development in the region.
- China has been pushing forward its ties with ASEAN guided by the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness. We will continue to work for progress on the political security, economic and socio-cultural fronts, support ASEAN centrality in regional cooperation, and build a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future.
- China has been advancing Belt and Road cooperation with the Arab League and set out the guiding principles of peace, innovation, guidance, governance and integration. China is a committed builder of peace, promoter of development, facilitator of industrialization, supporter of stability, and partner of people-to-people exchanges in the Middle East. We will continue to advance economic and trade cooperation with the Arab League, enhance political trust, increase inter-civilization exchanges, and build a community with a shared future based on common convictions and pursuits, featuring tranquility and harmony and in pursuit of development and prosperity.
In view of the unprecedented changes that the world is going through, China stands ready to enhance cooperation with regional organizations, work in the same direction to uphold peace together and build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Good afternoon. It gives me great pleasure to visit Chato, the hometown of President John Magufuli. I appreciate the hospitality shown to my delegation by our Tanzanian hosts. We are pleased to see that under the leadership of President Magufuli, the Tanzanian government and people have worked hard to develop the country, and have found a path toward national renewal suited to your conditions. As your friends, we are truly happy for you and offer our hearty congratulations.
As China's iron-clad friend in Africa, Tanzania has had a special place in the history of China's foreign relations. For people of my age, stories about the China-Tanzania friendship left an indelible mark on our youthful mind.
We will never forget how Chairman Mao Zedong, Premier Zhou Enlai and President Julius Nyerere nurtured our all-weather friendship with sincerity and good faith. Premier Zhou Enlai travelled long distances to visit Tanzania. President Nyerere visited China 13 times. All this made our friendship such a splendid chapter in our shared history.
We will never forget that over 50,000 Chinese engineers and technicians travelled thousands of miles to Africa and, side by side with the people of Tanzania, built the TAZARA Railway despite formidable difficulties. In building this railway of freedom and friendship for Southeastern Africa, 65 Chinese experts made the ultimate sacrifice. Their sweat and blood helped nurture the unfading flower of China-Africa friendship.
We will never forget that Tanzania and other African brotherly countries helped the People's Republic of China restore its lawful seat at the United Nations (UN) in 1971. Former Prime Minister Dr. Salim Ahmed Salim, Tanzania's representative to the UN, applauded and cheered in the hall to congratulate China, leaving a moment of defying power politics and speaking up for justice in the history of the UN. At the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic, we specially presented our old friend Dr. Salim with a Friendship Medal.
More importantly, we will never forget that President Xi Jinping visited Tanzania during his very first trip to Africa since he assumed office as President of China in 2013. During that visit, President Xi put forth the principle of sincerity, real results, affinity and good faith and the principle of pursuing greater good and shared interests, which have since been the guiding principles of China's policy toward Africa. The significance of China-Tanzania relations has gone beyond the bilateral scope, and our bilateral relationship has played an important and exemplary role in China-Africa relations and South-South cooperation.
Just now, I met with President Magufuli and held talks with Foreign Minister Kabudi. We reached important consensus on further deepening China-Tanzania relations.
We agreed that the traditional friendship between China and Tanzania is a valued asset for the two countries and for the Chinese and African peoples. We must cherish it, and carry it forward from generation to generation.
We agreed to make good use of our similar thinking and common goals about national, political party, and military development, enhance exchanges at all levels, and deepen experience-sharing on governance.
We decided to strengthen practical cooperation. We will join hands together to pursue Belt and Road cooperation, and support more Chinese business investment in Tanzania. China will import more quality products from Tanzania. China fully understands the importance of the Central Line project to Tanzania. It will continue to support Tanzania in advancing major infrastructure projects, accelerating industrialization, and enhancing capacity building for self-generated development.
We agreed to step up coordination on international affairs. We will support multilateralism, oppose external interference, uphold international justice and equity, and build a strong defence for our respective core interests and the shared interests of the developing world.
Friends,
This is my 15th visit to Africa. What has impressed me most throughout this visit is that no matter how the international situation changes, no matter what challenge we face, and no matter what kind of disturbance and disruption we encounter, the traditional friendship between China and Africa has withstood the test of time, and is getting stronger and stronger. China and Africa are comrades-in-arms, brothers going through thick and thin, and partners for common development. As a good and true friend of African countries, China will make unremitting efforts with Africa to deepen our comprehensive strategic partnership and build an even stronger China-Africa community with a shared future.
The outgoing 2020 has witnessed the sudden onslaught of COVID-19, a pandemic that has upended the world in almost all aspects. Countries have come to realize more than ever that global challenges require enhanced international coordination and cooperation, and that major countries in particular should lead by example. However, China-U.S. relations have spiraled down to the lowest level since the establishment of diplomatic ties 41 years ago. This is clearly not in the interests of the Chinese and American peoples, nor is it helpful when global efforts are needed to overcome the difficulties.
In retrospect, 2020 might have witnessed the greatest damage to the international order and international relations. Among many others, we see power politics jeopardizing international stability, as arbitrary interference in others' internal affairs and sanctions have become the biggest destabilizing factor to regional and global security. We see protectionism jeopardizing international trade, as backlash against globalization is gathering momentum, with more barriers impeding trade and investment, and global industrial and supply chains on the cusp of breakdown. We see unilateralism jeopardizing international cooperation, as the "go it alone" approach and walking away from international commitment fracture and cripple the international system, and drag on international efforts against global challenges. And we see McCarthyism jeopardizing international exchanges, as those with radical and entrenched political biases seek to label and stigmatize open and lawful political parties and institutions of other countries, and use ideology to disrupt or even sever international engagement, aiming at starting a new Cold War and forming a new Iron Curtain.
These risks and challenges facing us are unprecedented. China and the United States are two largest economies, permanent members of the UN Security Council, and the largest developing and developed country respectively. What is expected of us is to form the right perception about one another, act in line with the trend of the times, and heed the aspirations of the international community. We need to step up to our responsibilities as major countries and at the same time, work together with other countries to overcome difficulties, meet challenges and pursue development.
Friends,
I know you all follow China's diplomacy closely, the style and future direction of which has been the subject of ongoing discussions. What I would underline is that China follows an independent foreign policy of peace, and seeks to engage other countries for friendship and cooperation on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. China is committed to bringing happiness to the Chinese people and contributing to progress of humanity, and seeks to play a constructive role for world peace and development. China has no intention to compete for hegemony. We never interfere in other's internal affairs. We don't export our system or model. Not in the least do we seek spheres of influence.
China's diplomacy is for the development of the nation. As China remains a developing country, our ultimate goal is to meet the aspiration of the Chinese people for a better life. With relentless efforts, all rural residents living under the current poverty line and all designated counties have shed off poverty this year. This means extreme poverty is eliminated for the first time in China's history of several thousand years. Proud of such an achievement, we are also sober-minded about the long journey ahead if we are to lock in the gains against poverty and bring prosperity to all the people. China's diplomacy, which starts at home, should help promote the overall development of the country and the new development paradigm.
China's diplomacy is for win-win outcome. It's not part of the Chinese culture to seek our own development or put our interests above others. Nor is it our philosophy to play the zero-sum game and be the winner that takes all. We are committed to a win-win strategy of opening up to ensure all countries will come out as winners. We believe that diplomacy as such will be more sustainable and enjoy more support. We will further open up, only broader, deeper and with higher standards, to share opportunities and benefits for win-win and greater development.
China's diplomacy is for equity. Having experienced great humiliation in history, China truly understands how important equity is. We believe that countries, irrespective of their size and strength, are all equal members of the international community. The big and strong must not bully the small and weak. We believe that countries enjoy equal rights to development. Developed countries are obligated to help developing countries increase the capacity for self-development. And developing countries should not be kept forever at the lower end of the industrial and value chains. We believe that global affairs should be handled by all countries through consultation, and that international rules should be made by all countries on an equal footing. There should be more democracy in international relations.
Friends,
China stays committed to developing a relationship based on coordination, cooperation and stability with the United States under the principle of no conflict, no confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation. China has been working in good faith to that goal. Regrettably however, when we turn on TVs, read newspapers, and access new media, we would often see senior U.S. officials pointing fingers at China. There is no evidence to support their accusations. They are merely irresponsible presumption of guilt and emotional lashing out. The fundamental reason behind all this is that some U.S. politicians have strategic miscalculations about China.
First, they choose to ignore the vast common interests and room for cooperation between the two countries, and insist that China is a main threat. This is like "misaligning the first button of the clothes" - they get things wrong at the very beginning. The ensuing "whole-of-government strategy" that mobilizes all resources available to take on China is going in a wrong direction. Second, they seek to defame the Communist Party of China (CPC) out of ideological bias. The CPC, as the constitutionally recognized ruling party of China, has a close bond and a shared future with the Chinese people. An attack on the CPC is an attack on the 1.4 billion Chinese people. It is doomed to fail. Third, they hope that maximum pressure will make China give in. China was once bullied by western powers, but those days are long gone. Power politics will only get the Chinese people to be more resolved in their response. Fourth, they attempt to build an international coalition against China. But in the age of globalization, the interests of all countries are so intertwined that the overwhelming majority of them do not want to take sides, let alone being forced into confrontation with China. Facts have proved, and will continue to prove, that these attempts will lead nowhere and find no support because they deny the fruitful cooperation between China and the United States over the past 40-plus years of diplomatic engagement, write off decades of efforts by the good Chinese and Americans to grow this relationship, and dismiss the ardent hope of the international community for peaceful coexistence between China and the Untied States.
This difficult situation in China-U.S. relations is not something we want to see. The two sides should learn from the ups and downs since the establishment of diplomatic ties. In particular, it is important that the U.S. policy toward China return to objectivity and sensibility as early as possible.
I wish to stress that China's policy toward the United States is always stable and consistent. We always believe that with deeply interwoven interests between the two countries, neither can do without the other, remodel the other, or replace the other. The bilateral relationship is no zero-sum game; the success of one does not have to entail the other's failure. While China-U.S. cooperation can make great things happen for the two countries and the entire world, China-U.S. confrontation would definitely spell disaster for not only the two countries but also humanity as a whole.
Friends,
The giant vessel of China-U.S. relationship carries not only the well-being of the 1.7 billion Chinese and Americans, but also the interests of the over seven billion people of the world. The time has come to decide the future course of this giant vessel. As President Xi Jinping wrote in his congratulatory message to President-elect Joe Biden, "It is hoped that the two sides will work together in the spirit of no conflict, no confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation, focus on cooperation, manage differences, move forward China-U.S. relations in a sound and steady manner and, together with other countries and the international community, advance the noble cause of world peace and development." This is how we see our relationship and what we expect of it.
We hope that the U.S. side will join us in rebuilding the strategic framework for the healthy and steady growth of China-U.S. relations on the basis of mutual respect, through dialogue and consultation, and by way of deepening our common interests and enhancing the support by the people.
In my video discussion last week with friends from the U.S.-China Business Council, I talked about the importance for China and the United States to restart dialogue, return bilateral relations to the right track, and rebuild mutual trust. We should expand cooperation and manage differences through dialogue. Among the four priorities laid out by President-elect Joe Biden, at least three - COVID-19 response, economic recovery and climate change - provide big space for cooperation between our two countries. The most pressing task at the moment is to jointly tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. We will continue to do what we can to support the United States as needed. The two countries could also strengthen cooperation in diagnostic and therapeutic experience, PPE production, as well as vaccine research, manufacturing and distribution. We could also leverage our respective strengths to support COVID-19 response in third countries and contribute to a global community of health for all. Climate change is another important area of cooperation. China is steadfast in following the new development philosophy and building an ecological civilization. We are committed to achieving green, low-carbon and sustainable development. To this end, we will faithfully implement the Paris Agreement on climate change to fulfill our responsibility to future generations and our obligations to the international community. At the Climate Ambition Summit on 12 December, President Xi Jinping announced China's objectives and policy measures to scale up its nationally determined contributions. We noted that President-elect Joe Biden had pledged to bring the United States back to the Paris Agreement after taking office. We welcome more active actions from the U.S. side to this end. Our two countries can come together again to facilitate international cooperation on climate change. China is also ready to work with the United States to strengthen macroeconomic dialogue and coordination and contribute to global growth and financial stability as the world's two largest economies.
That said, we never shy away from our differences. China's stance is that the two sides should manage constructively the prominent and important issues based on a right perception of each other.
First, on ideological issues, we need to respect each other's choice of system and development path. Over four decades ago, leaders of China and the United States made the handshake across the vast Pacific, because both countries recognized the importance of mutual respect and seeking common ground while putting aside differences. The goal of China-U.S. engagement is not to mold the other in one's own image, still less to defeat the other side, but to seek and expand common interests. Both Chinese and American systems are chosen by their people and deeply rooted in their respective historical and cultural traditions. If the U.S. China policy were to remodel or even subvert China, it would not be achievable. The right approach is to respect each other's political system and development path, maintain peaceful coexistence, and promote win-win cooperation.
Second, on issues concerning national sovereignty and territorial integrity, we need to commit to the international norm of non-interference in other's internal affairs. Issues relating to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Tibet and Xinjiang are China's internal affairs and involve China's core interests. None of them shall be subject to foreign interference, either under the international norms established by the UN Charter or under the three binding China-U.S. joint communiqus. There has been too much false information about Xinjiang and Tibet, and the executive branch and Congress have, on this basis, exercised long-arm jurisdiction on Chinese businesses and individuals. This seriously violates international law and defies international justice and conscience. As an independent sovereign state, China naturally has to respond. We shall not allow the law of the jungle to govern our world again. For our foreign friends who truly care about China and wish to know more about Xinjiang, Tibet and other parts of China, we are always ready to share with them the facts. We welcome you to visit the two autonomous regions at your convenience. There, you will see first-hand a Xinjiang and a Tibet that enjoy social progress, ethnic harmony, freedom of religious belief, and a vibrant economy.
Third, on trade issues, we need to replace confrontation and sanctions with dialogue and consultation. China-U.S. trade is mutually beneficial in nature. What drives trade is market demand, not imposed deals. There are no winners in trade wars, which only hurt both sides. What has happened proves that pressuring others with tariffs would only boomerang. The two sides need to remove man-made barriers and instill positive expectations for the sound development of China-U.S. economic and trade cooperation. The Chinese market will continue to grow and is expected to become the largest and most vibrant in the world. This means China can and need to buy more products with active demand in the Chinese market from the United States, and it is just a matter of time before the trade imbalance is eased. As for the U.S. concern of structural issues, China is firmly advancing supply-side structural reform according to its own pace. In the meantime, China is implementing in good faith the common understandings in the phase one trade agreement in this aspect. China has set a clear goal of building a new system of open economy of higher standards, and has moved further to reform systems and institutions. As time passes, legitimate concerns expressed by various parties will be properly resolved. We urge the U.S. side to stop overstretching the notion of national security, stop the arbitrary suppression of Chinese companies, and provide an open, fair and non-discriminatory environment for Chinese businesses and investors.
Fourth, on maritime issues, we need to strive to turn frictions into cooperation. There has been no problem with the freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea. There has never been a single instance where normal navigation or overflight was impeded. China will work with countries in the region to maintain the freedom of navigation and overflight under international law. China will speed up consultations with ASEAN countries toward a Code of Conduct in the South China Sea, which will regulate behaviors on the sea and underline the principle of peaceful settlement of disputes. The conclusion of the Code of Conduct will be compatible with universally recognized international laws, and will not affect the legitimate and lawful maritime rights and interests of countries outside this region. The Chinese government is always open to communication and dialogue on maritime issues with the U.S. side. Chinese and U.S. experts and scholars may also engage in in-depth discussions on the applicability of UNCLOS and other international laws and rules to avoid misunderstanding and misjudgment. Our two countries share common interests in maintaining freedom of navigation, protecting the marine environment and harnessing marine resources. The two sides can explore possibilities of cooperation in those areas, engage in positive interactions on maritime issues, and add positive elements to China-U.S. relations.
Fifth, on people-to-people exchange, we need to remove restrictions as soon as possible. Friendship between our peoples provides the social foundation for China-U.S. relations. People with vision in both countries should jointly reject the attempts to disrupt people-to-people contact and create a cultural decoupling between the two countries, and work together to encourage and support people from all sectors to increase exchanges and mutual understanding. To view all Chinese students, experts and scholars in the United States as spy suspects actually says more about the mentality of the accusers and their lack of confidence. China has no intention to pick a fight with the United States either in diplomacy, media or other fields. It is important that people with vision in both countries jointly oppose stigmatizing people-to-people exchange and politicizing normal contact, and remove stumbling blocks to such contact and exchange.
Friends,
As long as the two countries act with a sense of responsibility to history and humanity, bear in mind the fundamental interests of the two peoples and the whole world, and stay committed to principles of mutual respect, equality, seeking common ground while shelving differences, and win-win cooperation, the giant ship of China-U.S. relations will be able to stay on the right course, maintain a strong momentum, steer clear of hidden shoals and rocks, navigate through the countercurrents and stormy waves, and achieve the goal of mutual benefit and win-win for the world.
Five years ago, world leaders showed utmost political resolve and wisdom and adopted the Paris Agreement on climate change. Since then, the implementation of the Paris Agreement has received extensive international support and participation. At present, the international landscape is evolving more rapidly and COVID-19 is triggering deep reflections on the relationship between man and nature. The future of global climate governance is drawing greater attention. In this context, I wish to make three proposals:
First, we need to close ranks and make new advances in climate governance that features cooperation and win-win. In meeting the climate challenge, no one can be aloof and unilateralism will get us nowhere. Only by upholding multilateralism, unity and cooperation can we deliver shared benefits and win-win for all nations. China welcomes all countries' support for the Paris Agreement and their greater contribution to tackling climate change.
Second, we need to raise ambition and foster a new architecture of climate governance where every party does its part. Following the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, all countries need to maximize actions in light of their respective national circumstances and capabilities. At the same time, developed countries need to scale up support for developing countries in financing, technology and capacity building.
Third, we need to boost confidence and pursue a new approach to climate governance that highlights green recovery. Mountains and rivers green are mountains of silver and gold. It is important to encourage green, low-carbon ways of life and production, and seek development opportunities and impetus from green development.
China has made important contributions to adopting the Paris Agreement and has made active efforts toward implementing it. I announced in September that China would scale up its nationally determined contributions and adopt more vigorous policies and measures. We aim to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
Today, I wish to announce some further commitments for 2030: China will lower its carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by over 65 percent from the 2005 level, increase the share of non-fossil fuels in primary energy consumption to around 25 percent, increase the forest stock volume by 6 billion cubic meters from the 2005 level, and bring its total installed capacity of wind and solar power to over 1.2 billion kilowatts.
China always honors its commitments. Guided by our new development philosophy, we will promote greener economic and social development in all respects while pursuing high-quality development. We will take solid steps to implement the targets just announced, and contribute even more to tackling the global climate challenge.
Colleagues,
As a Chinese poem reads, "Heaven does not speak and it alternates the four seasons; Earth does not speak and it nurtures all things." Earth is our only and shared home. Let us build on past achievements, work together to make steady progress in implementing the Paris Agreement, and launch a new journey for global climate actions.
This is an unusual time in history for us humanity. The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated changes unseen in a century in the world. The global economy finds itself into deep recession, its industrial and supply chains are disrupted, and governance, trust, development and peace deficits continue to grow. Mounting unilateralism, protectionism and bullying as well as backlash against economic globalization have added to risks and uncertainties in the world economy.

However, peace and development remain the underlying trend of our times. Meeting challenges through cooperation is the only way forward for us in the international community. This pandemic once again shows that the interests of all countries are closely interwoven and that humankind shares a common stake. Indeed, our world is an indivisible community with a shared future. To beat the virus and promote global recovery, we in the international community must close ranks and jointly respond to this crisis and meet the test. All countries should act in the spirit of partnership and get through this tough time together. We need to step up policy communication and coordination, intensify all-round global cooperation against COVID-19 and keep global economy open. By doing so, we can defeat the virus at an early date and achieve robust, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth for all.

Since the start of this year, facing the sudden onslaught of COVID-19, China has put people and life above everything else. The 1.4 billion Chinese people, united as one, have made a major strategic achievement in fighting the virus. We have endeavored to both contain the virus and speedily bring production and life back to normal, thus maintaining economic and social development. China's economy resumed positive overall growth in the first three quarters this year. This hard-won achievement speaks volumes about the resilience and vitality of the Chinese economy. The fundamentals sustaining China's steady and long-term economic growth remain unchanged. We have full confidence and ability to maintain stable economic performance and achieve the goals of finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects and eradicating poverty within the set time frame.

At its recently concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th Central Committee, the Communist Party of China deliberated on and adopted the recommendations for formulating China's 14th Five-Year Plan. According to the recommendations, China will complete building a moderately prosperous society in all respects within the set time frame. From next year on, China will embark on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. We will develop a full understanding of the new development stage, and apply the new development philosophy. We will foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. The new development paradigm is a strategic decision we have made based on the current stage and conditions of development in China and with full consideration given to economic globalization and changes in the external environment.

First, we will expand domestic demand as a strategic priority and ensure smooth flow of economic activity. In recent years, China's development model of reliance on foreign markets and resources has gone through some gradual changes. The ratio of foreign trade to GDP dropped from 67 percent in 2006 to less than 32 percent in 2019, while the ratio of current account surplus to GDP has come down from 9.9 percent in 2007 to less than one percent today. In seven years since the 2008 global financial crisis, the contribution of China's domestic demand to GDP exceeded 100 percent, making domestic consumption the main driver of its growth. In promoting domestic and international circulations, the Chinese economy has become much more domestically driven and the performance of China's development has been significantly enhanced. Fostering a new development paradigm will enable China to better adjust its economic structure and achieve high-quality development. China will continue to deepen supply-side structural reforms and further expand domestic demand. Doing so will make production, distribution, flow of goods and services, and consumption in China more based on domestic market, and it will make the supply system better adapt to domestic demand. This will usher in a higher stage of well-adjusted balance where demand drives supply and supply, in turn, creates demand.

Second, we will vigorously make scientific and technological innovations to foster new growth drivers. A new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is gathering pace, and science and technology are playing an even more significant role in boosting social productivity. To China, innovation has always been the primary driver of development, and we have made major achievements by implementing an innovation-driven development strategy. As China enters a new stage of development, factors of production underpinning its development have gone through profound changes. This means that China must pursue innovation to achieve high-quality growth driven by domestic demand. We will fully leverage the demand of our super-sized domestic market and the strengths of its complete industrial system and redouble efforts to turn research outcomes into real productivity. We will endeavor to build an innovation system that integrates science and technology, education, industries and the financial sector, and upgrade the industrial chains. This will sustain China's long-term economic development.

Third, we will continue to deepen reform and energize the market. What we have achieved during the past 40-plus years of China's reform and opening-up shows one thing: Reform is crucial for unleashing and boosting productivity. China has entered a new stage of development and faces new tasks of reform. We will take more steps and remove with greater resolve deep-seated systemic and institutional barriers to modernize China's governance system and capacity. We will enhance our ability to better apply the new development philosophy, namely, one of pursuing innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development. We will transform the growth model, upgrade quality and performance, and make growth drivers more robust. We will accelerate the building of a modernized economy, strengthen protection of property and intellectual property rights, set up a high-standard market system and improve mechanisms for fair competition. All this will fully motivate all types of market entities.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Friends,

Openness enables a country to move forward, while seclusion holds it back. In today's world where economic globalization has become an irreversible trend, no country can develop itself by keeping its doors closed. China is already deeply integrated into the global economy and the international system. We will not reverse course or run against historical trend by "decoupling" or forming a small circle to keep others out. By fostering a new development paradigm, we are not pursuing a closed-door circulation, but open and mutually reinforcing domestic and international circulations.

- The new development paradigm will enable China to fully unlock its market potential and create greater demand for other countries. China's per capita GDP has topped US$10,000, and its middle-income population has exceeded 400 million. It is projected by many international institutions that China's retail market will reach six trillion dollars in size this year. As China's economy grows, our people naturally want to lead an even better life. This will create more demand for a greater variety of quality products, technologies and services from across the world. Despite the damage inflicted by COVID-19, China's import of goods has basically recovered to the level of last year. The China International Fair for Trade in Services held in Beijing this September brought together 22,000 companies from 148 countries and regions to its online and off line events. Not long ago, the third China International Import Expo was successfully held in Shanghai. It was participated by companies from 124 countries and regions. The exhibition area was further expanded. More deals were sealed, reaching US$72.62 billion in value. China will further cut tariffs and government instituted transaction costs, and open a number of demonstration zones for creative promotion of import trade to increase import of quality goods and services. I am confident that the steady unleashing of the China market potential will create vast business possibilities for other countries, and this will create stronger impetus for maintaining stable growth of the global economy.

- The new development paradigm will enable China to open up wider and share more opportunities for common development with other countries. China is committed to opening-up, which is its fundamental policy, a policy that will not change at any time. The world economy has faced more instability and uncertainty this year. Protectionism and unilateralism are mounting. Yet China has not stalled in its pursuit of opening-up. As a matter of fact, we have taken many policy steps to open the country still wider. It includes the following: The Foreign Investment Law and its supporting rules and regulations have been fully implemented. The negative list for foreign investment has been further cut. Access to the financial market has been steadily eased. A master plan has been drawn up for the development of the Hainan Free Trade Port. Reform and opening-up in Shenzhen and Pudong have been further advanced. And more pilot programs have been conducted for creative promotion of trade in services.

I wish to reiterate that China's commitment to opening-up is strong, and that China will open its door still wider to the world. China will continue to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, to conclude, through negotiation, high-standard free trade agreements with more countries, and to actively engage in bilateral, multilateral and regional mechanisms for trade and investment cooperation. The purpose is to build a higher-standard open economy in China. China will improve its system for foreign investment management based on pre-establishment national treatment and negative list. The lawful rights and interests of foreign investors will be protected. China will open up the service sector in a well-planned way, and foster a market-oriented, world-class business environment underpinned by a sound legal framework. China will give its pilot free trade zones greater power in carrying out reform, and turn them into new pacesetters of opening-up. At the same time, China will continue to firmly support the multilateral trading system, get more actively involved in reforming the system of global economic governance, and play its part to make this system fairer and more equitable.

- The new development paradigm will enable China to continue to deepen international cooperation for shared benefits. China will take a more active part in the international division of labor, get more effectively integrated into global industrial, supply and value chains, and more enthusiastically expand exchanges and cooperation with other countries. We welcome cooperation with every other region, country, or company that wants to do so. China will remain committed to openness and cooperation, and adhere to multilateralism and the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. China will work to pursue high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with its partners, and seek greater complementarity between the development strategies and connectivity plans of regions and countries concerned. China will further harmonize policies, rules and standards with BRI partners, and deepen effective cooperation with them on infrastructure, industry, trade, scientific and technological innovation, public health and people-to-people exchange. Together, we will make the Belt and Road a model of cooperation, health, recovery and growth and deepen cooperation on green development. This will allow us to contribute to common development and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Friends,

The Asia-Pacific is our shared home. To sustain peace, stability, development and prosperity in the region meets the interests of us all. As Asia-Pacific economies are connected by the same ocean, we benefit from close interactions between our peoples and geographic proximity. We should follow market trends, seize opportunities created by economic globalization and regional economic integration and become forerunners driving global growth. The development of the Asia-Pacific and greater economic cooperation in our region represent an underlying historical trend, and such development and cooperation will continue to be imbued with strong vitality, because they respond to the call of the people in our region.

Last year, I proposed building an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future featuring openness, inclusiveness, innovation-driven growth, greater connectivity and mutually beneficial cooperation. This year, thanks to participation of all economies concerned, the APEC Post-2020 Vision has been formulated, which sets out ambitious goals and important guidelines for our future cooperation. Let us not forget that we are a community with a common stake, and let us move toward closer regional economic integration. We need to accelerate innovation-driven growth, enhance regional connectivity, and realize inclusive and sustainable development. Step by step, we can surely turn our vision into reality and deliver a better life for people in the region.

The Asia-Pacific business community is an engine driving economic growth. You have witnessed development and cooperation in our region; and indeed, you have contributed to it every step on the way. You have an important role to play in shaping the future of our region, and there is no doubt you will benefit from its development. Asia-Pacific cooperation has entered a new historical stage at a time when the world is facing multiple challenges. The business community needs a broader vision, greater resilience and stronger entrepreneurship. With them, I am sure you will create greater prospects for business development.I hope you will contribute your share to promoting openness and development. You may work to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and ensure the security and stability of industrial and supply chains of our region; and your work will enable the Asia-Pacific to take the lead in achieving economic recovery and prosperity.I hope you will explore innovation-driven growth. You may take bold steps to pursue organizational, technological and market innovations; that will make the Asia-Pacific a fertile ground for scientific breakthroughs and a pacesetter for innovation. I hope you will be partners for achieving win-win cooperation. You may tap fully into the potential for cooperation, and make the pie of cooperation even bigger for all our people to benefit from.I hope you will actively fulfill your social responsibilities. You may all play active parts in the international fight against COVID-19 and do more to help disadvantaged groups to add more momentum to global development.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Dear Friends,

The day will come when we finally beat COVID-19 and win victory in this fight. Let us work in solidarity and weather the storm together. Let us stay true to openness and cooperation and make development and circulations at home and overseas reinforce each other. Together, we can surely deliver a brighter future for all of us, both here in the Asia-Pacific and across the world!

This is an unusual time in history for us humanity. The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated changes unseen in a century in the world. The global economy finds itself into deep recession, its industrial and supply chains are disrupted, and governance, trust, development and peace deficits continue to grow. Mounting unilateralism, protectionism and bullying as well as backlash against economic globalization have added to risks and uncertainties in the world economy.

However, peace and development remain the underlying trend of our times. Meeting challenges through cooperation is the only way forward for us in the international community. This pandemic once again shows that the interests of all countries are closely interwoven and that humankind shares a common stake. Indeed, our world is an indivisible community with a shared future. To beat the virus and promote global recovery, we in the international community must close ranks and jointly respond to this crisis and meet the test. All countries should act in the spirit of partnership and get through this tough time together. We need to step up policy communication and coordination, intensify all-round global cooperation against COVID-19 and keep global economy open. By doing so, we can defeat the virus at an early date and achieve robust, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth for all.

Since the start of this year, facing the sudden onslaught of COVID-19, China has put people and life above everything else. The 1.4 billion Chinese people, united as one, have made a major strategic achievement in fighting the virus. We have endeavored to both contain the virus and speedily bring production and life back to normal, thus maintaining economic and social development. China's economy resumed positive overall growth in the first three quarters this year. This hard-won achievement speaks volumes about the resilience and vitality of the Chinese economy. The fundamentals sustaining China's steady and long-term economic growth remain unchanged. We have full confidence and ability to maintain stable economic performance and achieve the goals of finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects and eradicating poverty within the set time frame.

At its recently concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th Central Committee, the Communist Party of China deliberated on and adopted the recommendations for formulating China's 14th Five-Year Plan. According to the recommendations, China will complete building a moderately prosperous society in all respects within the set time frame. From next year on, China will embark on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. We will develop a full understanding of the new development stage, and apply the new development philosophy. We will foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. The new development paradigm is a strategic decision we have made based on the current stage and conditions of development in China and with full consideration given to economic globalization and changes in the external environment.

First, we will expand domestic demand as a strategic priority and ensure smooth flow of economic activity. In recent years, China's development model of reliance on foreign markets and resources has gone through some gradual changes. The ratio of foreign trade to GDP dropped from 67 percent in 2006 to less than 32 percent in 2019, while the ratio of current account surplus to GDP has come down from 9.9 percent in 2007 to less than one percent today. In seven years since the 2008 global financial crisis, the contribution of China's domestic demand to GDP exceeded 100 percent, making domestic consumption the main driver of its growth. In promoting domestic and international circulations, the Chinese economy has become much more domestically driven and the performance of China's development has been significantly enhanced. Fostering a new development paradigm will enable China to better adjust its economic structure and achieve high-quality development. China will continue to deepen supply-side structural reforms and further expand domestic demand. Doing so will make production, distribution, flow of goods and services, and consumption in China more based on domestic market, and it will make the supply system better adapt to domestic demand. This will usher in a higher stage of well-adjusted balance where demand drives supply and supply, in turn, creates demand.

Second, we will vigorously make scientific and technological innovations to foster new growth drivers. A new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is gathering pace, and science and technology are playing an even more significant role in boosting social productivity. To China, innovation has always been the primary driver of development, and we have made major achievements by implementing an innovation-driven development strategy. As China enters a new stage of development, factors of production underpinning its development have gone through profound changes. This means that China must pursue innovation to achieve high-quality growth driven by domestic demand. We will fully leverage the demand of our super-sized domestic market and the strengths of its complete industrial system and redouble efforts to turn research outcomes into real productivity. We will endeavor to build an innovation system that integrates science and technology, education, industries and the financial sector, and upgrade the industrial chains. This will sustain China's long-term economic development.

Third, we will continue to deepen reform and energize the market. What we have achieved during the past 40-plus years of China's reform and opening-up shows one thing: Reform is crucial for unleashing and boosting productivity. China has entered a new stage of development and faces new tasks of reform. We will take more steps and remove with greater resolve deep-seated systemic and institutional barriers to modernize China's governance system and capacity. We will enhance our ability to better apply the new development philosophy, namely, one of pursuing innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development. We will transform the growth model, upgrade quality and performance, and make growth drivers more robust. We will accelerate the building of a modernized economy, strengthen protection of property and intellectual property rights, set up a high-standard market system and improve mechanisms for fair competition. All this will fully motivate all types of market entities.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Friends,

Openness enables a country to move forward, while seclusion holds it back. In today's world where economic globalization has become an irreversible trend, no country can develop itself by keeping its doors closed. China is already deeply integrated into the global economy and the international system. We will not reverse course or run against historical trend by "decoupling" or forming a small circle to keep others out. By fostering a new development paradigm, we are not pursuing a closed-door circulation, but open and mutually reinforcing domestic and international circulations.

- The new development paradigm will enable China to fully unlock its market potential and create greater demand for other countries. China's per capita GDP has topped US$10,000, and its middle-income population has exceeded 400 million. It is projected by many international institutions that China's retail market will reach six trillion dollars in size this year. As China's economy grows, our people naturally want to lead an even better life. This will create more demand for a greater variety of quality products, technologies and services from across the world. Despite the damage inflicted by COVID-19, China's import of goods has basically recovered to the level of last year. The China International Fair for Trade in Services held in Beijing this September brought together 22,000 companies from 148 countries and regions to its online and off line events. Not long ago, the third China International Import Expo was successfully held in Shanghai. It was participated by companies from 124 countries and regions. The exhibition area was further expanded. More deals were sealed, reaching US$72.62 billion in value. China will further cut tariffs and government instituted transaction costs, and open a number of demonstration zones for creative promotion of import trade to increase import of quality goods and services. I am confident that the steady unleashing of the China market potential will create vast business possibilities for other countries, and this will create stronger impetus for maintaining stable growth of the global economy.

- The new development paradigm will enable China to open up wider and share more opportunities for common development with other countries. China is committed to opening-up, which is its fundamental policy, a policy that will not change at any time. The world economy has faced more instability and uncertainty this year. Protectionism and unilateralism are mounting. Yet China has not stalled in its pursuit of opening-up. As a matter of fact, we have taken many policy steps to open the country still wider. It includes the following: The Foreign Investment Law and its supporting rules and regulations have been fully implemented. The negative list for foreign investment has been further cut. Access to the financial market has been steadily eased. A master plan has been drawn up for the development of the Hainan Free Trade Port. Reform and opening-up in Shenzhen and Pudong have been further advanced. And more pilot programs have been conducted for creative promotion of trade in services.

I wish to reiterate that China's commitment to opening-up is strong, and that China will open its door still wider to the world. China will continue to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, to conclude, through negotiation, high-standard free trade agreements with more countries, and to actively engage in bilateral, multilateral and regional mechanisms for trade and investment cooperation. The purpose is to build a higher-standard open economy in China. China will improve its system for foreign investment management based on pre-establishment national treatment and negative list. The lawful rights and interests of foreign investors will be protected. China will open up the service sector in a well-planned way, and foster a market-oriented, world-class business environment underpinned by a sound legal framework. China will give its pilot free trade zones greater power in carrying out reform, and turn them into new pacesetters of opening-up. At the same time, China will continue to firmly support the multilateral trading system, get more actively involved in reforming the system of global economic governance, and play its part to make this system fairer and more equitable.

- The new development paradigm will enable China to continue to deepen international cooperation for shared benefits. China will take a more active part in the international division of labor, get more effectively integrated into global industrial, supply and value chains, and more enthusiastically expand exchanges and cooperation with other countries. We welcome cooperation with every other region, country, or company that wants to do so. China will remain committed to openness and cooperation, and adhere to multilateralism and the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. China will work to pursue high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with its partners, and seek greater complementarity between the development strategies and connectivity plans of regions and countries concerned. China will further harmonize policies, rules and standards with BRI partners, and deepen effective cooperation with them on infrastructure, industry, trade, scientific and technological innovation, public health and people-to-people exchange. Together, we will make the Belt and Road a model of cooperation, health, recovery and growth and deepen cooperation on green development. This will allow us to contribute to common development and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Friends,

The Asia-Pacific is our shared home. To sustain peace, stability, development and prosperity in the region meets the interests of us all. As Asia-Pacific economies are connected by the same ocean, we benefit from close interactions between our peoples and geographic proximity. We should follow market trends, seize opportunities created by economic globalization and regional economic integration and become forerunners driving global growth. The development of the Asia-Pacific and greater economic cooperation in our region represent an underlying historical trend, and such development and cooperation will continue to be imbued with strong vitality, because they respond to the call of the people in our region.

Last year, I proposed building an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future featuring openness, inclusiveness, innovation-driven growth, greater connectivity and mutually beneficial cooperation. This year, thanks to participation of all economies concerned, the APEC Post-2020 Vision has been formulated, which sets out ambitious goals and important guidelines for our future cooperation. Let us not forget that we are a community with a common stake, and let us move toward closer regional economic integration. We need to accelerate innovation-driven growth, enhance regional connectivity, and realize inclusive and sustainable development. Step by step, we can surely turn our vision into reality and deliver a better life for people in the region.

The Asia-Pacific business community is an engine driving economic growth. You have witnessed development and cooperation in our region; and indeed, you have contributed to it every step on the way. You have an important role to play in shaping the future of our region, and there is no doubt you will benefit from its development. Asia-Pacific cooperation has entered a new historical stage at a time when the world is facing multiple challenges. The business community needs a broader vision, greater resilience and stronger entrepreneurship. With them, I am sure you will create greater prospects for business development.I hope you will contribute your share to promoting openness and development. You may work to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and ensure the security and stability of industrial and supply chains of our region; and your work will enable the Asia-Pacific to take the lead in achieving economic recovery and prosperity.I hope you will explore innovation-driven growth. You may take bold steps to pursue organizational, technological and market innovations; that will make the Asia-Pacific a fertile ground for scientific breakthroughs and a pacesetter for innovation. I hope you will be partners for achieving win-win cooperation. You may tap fully into the potential for cooperation, and make the pie of cooperation even bigger for all our people to benefit from.I hope you will actively fulfill your social responsibilities. You may all play active parts in the international fight against COVID-19 and do more to help disadvantaged groups to add more momentum to global development.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Dear Friends,

The day will come when we finally beat COVID-19 and win victory in this fight. Let us work in solidarity and weather the storm together. Let us stay true to openness and cooperation and make development and circulations at home and overseas reinforce each other. Together, we can surely deliver a brighter future for all of us, both here in the Asia-Pacific and across the world!
Friends,
The Earth is our shared home. We may follow the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind and pitch in to tackle climate and other environmental challenges and protect the blue planet. Let me share with you my thoughts on what G20 could do:
First, we could strengthen our response to climate change. G20 should continue to take the lead in tackling climate change. We need to follow the guidance of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and push for the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. Not long ago, I announced China's initiative to scale up its nationally determined contributions and strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. China will honor its commitment and see the implementation through.
Second, we could deepen the transition toward clean energy. China applauds Saudi Arabia's initiative on Circular Carbon Economy, and supports the shift to low-carbon energy in the post-COVID era to achieve the goal of Sustainable Energy for All. China has put in place the world's biggest clean energy system, and has led the world in the output and sales of new energy vehicles for five years running. Under the recommendations for formulating China's 14th five-year development plan and the long-range goals for 2035, China will pursue clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient use of energy and accelerate the growth of new energy and green industries to promote greener economic and social development in all respects.
Third, we could protect the ecosystem with a respect for Nature. China supports deepening G20 cooperation in reducing land degradation, conserving coral reefs, and cleaning up plastic from the ocean. Through cooperation in these and many other areas, we could build a stronger defense for global ecological security. The 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity will be held in the Chinese city of Kunming in May next year. China welcomes the participation of all parties and hopes the meeting will set goals and take actions to ensure the protection of global biodiversity in the years ahead. Let us work together for a clean and beautiful world.





